Have we reached some state of age
reversal technology that truly works? We
can cure diseases and injuries that have
never been cured before. And so imagine
in 10 years you you just take a pill for
4 weeks and you get younger.
Why do we age? The epiggenome is the
issue because going through sperm and an
egg and fertilization resets the
epiggenome. But the good news is we've
figured out a way to safely reset that
without having to clone yourself. We've
gone from the idea that, oh, we just
take a supplement or we do some exercise
to slow down aging. Now, we're talking
about the ability to truly reset the
body, reset all of the cells in the body
to be young again. Teenager today will
live into the 22nd century.
Now, that's a moonshot, ladies and
gentlemen.
Welcome to Moonshots, everybody. Today's
episode is delivering on a state of the
union on age reversal, focusing on one
of my favorite moonshots, longevity, and
we'll be discussing epigenetic
reprogramming, when we might reach
longevity escape velocity, and the role
of AI in our longevity quest. My guest
here is a dear friend, a brilliant
scientist, Dr. David Sinclair, professor
at Harvard Medical School, author of
Lifespan, one of my favorite books. will
talk about what comes next from David's
uh authorship and one of the leading
thinkers in the realm of age reversal,
epigenetics and longevity science. We'll
discuss what's here on the near term,
how you can support it, how you can be
involved in it, how you can benefit from
it. We'll also discuss why at age 55,
David looks like he's 35. I believe
we're living during the most
extraordinary times in human history.
And if you want to see more of this
future, if you want additional decades
in your life, this is the episode for
you. All right, let's jump in with Dr.
David Sinclair and a whole download on
the state of age reversal. David,
welcome, buddy. Hey, Peter. It's good to
be back. It's good to have you back. How
are you doing? I'm doing well. You know,
um I'm having a blast. I am more focused
on my health than I ever have been.
You're looking really good. I was
commenting on your biceps right now.
That's why I'm wearing a jacket here
because I don't have them. I think and
we can talk about this that in fact uh
muscle mass and exercise still remains
one of the primary prolongevity drugs
out there. Absolutely. Yeah. And you
know, we'll get into the details of what
the best state-of-the-art is and what's
coming because you know, eating right,
sleep, diet, all of these things can
only get you so far. Uh, and then the
question is, can we turn back the clock
of time? So, here's my opener for you.
It's 10 years from now. It's 2035.
Have we reached some some state of age
reversal technology that truly works?
How well does it work? How often are you
taking this treatment? Uh, and what does
it cost? Give me a vision of the future
here. Right. Uh well, I'm not asking for
promises. I'm asking for your best
guess. Yeah, sure. I'm I'm I'm not shy
uh to take to talk about what I think is
coming. And as I wrote in my book,
Lifespan, I predicted a future where we
would have wearables and we would have
video conferences with our doctors and
you could order medicines online. And I
thought that was going to take 15 years.
And it happened in in three. Uh and so
sometimes I'm actually I I underestimate
what we're actually looking at. So
here's what I see. So I'm I I sit on the
front row of of the future, right, for
this long, the bleeding edge, I would
say. Yeah. And so I I want to share my
thoughts uh with the listeners.
What I'm seeing in my lab and labs that
are competing with us or uh
collaborating with us is something quite
remarkable.
Uh and the pace of change is making my
head spin off. And I and I'm an
optimist, but I I just can't comprehend
right now how fast things are going. So
let's just do it a go back a few years
and then we'll project into the future
going back a few years. So so 2017 it
was just a theory that we could reverse
aging. Even the word reverse and still
to some extent is abhorrent to my
colleagues. But we actually we proved
that and published in 2020 that you can
reverse most aspects of aging by
reprogramming cells which we'll talk
about and that changes everything. If my
information theory of aging is correct,
which is we'll talk about the idea that
you don't just lose information as you
get older, like software corruption, you
can actually reset that. If that's true,
and it looks like it is, then it it
changes everything because we've gone
from the idea that, oh, we just take a
supplement or we do some exercise to
slow down aging. That's basic. That that
should be on everyone's protocol. But
now we're talking about the ability to
truly reset the body. Reset all of the
cells in the body to be young again. And
and not just slightly, but by 50 75 80
90%. And this isn't science fiction. We
do this in my lab. My graduate students
are doing this all the time. It's we
talk like this in my lab. Whereas
outside it's like, what are you talking
about? How do you reverse aging? But
what we do is we use a set of genes that
are normally only on in embryos. we turn
them on in adult tissues, mice and and
monkeys, and we can cure diseases and
injuries that have never been cured
before, uh even blindness. And so we
published that in 2020. And since then,
what are we now? We're at the
middle of Yeah. 2025 currently. What I
see is that with the advances of AI, and
we're doing a lot of AI in my lab, which
I'm happy to share. Yeah. Things are
going so fast now. Now we're doing
experiments in a matter of a month that
would take hundreds of thousands of
years to to do as as you can probably
imagine um trillions of molecules coming
through screening virtually. And so
we're coming up with um alternatives to
this gene therapy that we publish in
2020. So you ask me first of all how
much might it cost? Well right now the
technology which is going into humans
next year in January hopefully. This is
with life biosciences. Correct. So, Life
Biosciences has proven that it works.
This reversal of aging in uh the optic
nerve to cure a variety of ailments in
the eye. And we chose the eye because uh
for business reasons mainly. Um so,
we're going to treat glaucoma and stroke
in the eye called Nion. And this is a
gene therapy. So, gene therapies
typically cost $3 $400,000 per hour or
it could be as much as $2 million for a
gene therapy, right? For for a rare
disease. Yeah, it's a lot. and and it
the reason is it there's a lot of
hurdles to get through to get to the
market and just producing this stuff is
expensive costing us more than $10
million just to make the first batch to
go into humans. Um but you know my lab
is in existence to make this for
everybody. You know we're not here to to
charge as much as we can. We're here to
make it hopefully eventually pennies on
the dollar every time someone takes a
pill. So, what we've been doing since
the last uh well 5 years is to try to
bring that cost down. And using AI,
we're now at a point where we've got
molecules that really would only cost
$100 to make or less uh for a a month's
course. For a month's course, like three
bucks a day. Yeah. Yeah. Um and we're
seeing that those work really well in
mouse studies to reset an old animal's
physiology within just a matter of four
weeks. So this holiday season uh we did
a hailmary experiment. We gave them just
orally this cocktail and uh we weren't
expecting anything but we thought why
don't we just measure how fit and
healthy they are. And all the mice that
were on the treatment and not the
controls ended up behaving and being
physiologically younger. And then when
we tested their biological age which you
can do with real quantitative tests they
were younger as well. And that's just
giving them this stuff Monday,
Wednesday, Friday for 4 weeks. Wow. So
now we want to do a lifespan study. Uh
if we can raise the funds to do that and
see if we can blow away the lifespan
record for mice. Every week I study the
10 major tech meta trends that will
transform industries over the decade
ahead. I cover trends ranging from
humanoid robots, AGI, quantum computing,
transport, energy, longevity, and more.
No fluff, only the important stuff that
matters, that impacts our lives and our
careers. If you want me to share these
with you, I write a newsletter twice a
week, sending it out as a short 2-minute
read via email. And if you want to
discover the most important meta trends
10 years before anyone else, these
reports are for you. Readers include
founders and CEOs from the world's most
disruptive companies and entrepreneurs
building the world's most disruptive
companies. It's not for you if you don't
want to be informed of what's coming,
why it matters, and how you can benefit
from it. To subscribe for free, go to
dmandis.com/metatrends.
That's dmmandis.com/tatrends
to gain access to trends 10 plus years
before anyone else. So 2035
it you're saying we will have a reversal
uh therapeutic working. Well, that's
where it's headed. So if you extrapolate
where we are, yeah, next year if all
goes well, uh we'll have shown that you
can reverse aging in a human in a tissue
safely. So curing blindness, you've done
this in primates already. Yeah, it works
in green monkeys really amazingly well.
And uh some of the data is just
stunning. You know, you can map whether
you reverse the age of the optic nerve
in these animals and it's looking like
95% of the age goes backwards. Wow.
Yeah. It's I mean this is to a youthful
state of the optic nerve and and
semi-permanmanently. This isn't that you
have to keep the genes on. You can
switch them off again and which we do.
We have an on-off system that we've
patented and and works really well. You
do it do it for about 6 to 8 weeks, then
turn it off and the eyes stay young and
they're going to age out again, but then
you just turn it back on for a few
weeks. Uh that's the plan. That's the
plan. I I like that plan. And and what
type of uh age reversal do you see? I
mean, you know, h putting this into
human terms, someone's 50 years old,
they turn this on. Is it taking them
back to, you know, teenage years? Can
you control how far back they would get?
Yeah, we can control it. The longer you
leave it on, the younger the tissue
gets. Beautiful. And it seems very safe.
There's no no untoward effects of this
treatment so far in in the monkeys
either. But here's what I see. I see
that within the next 10 years, we'll
have the ability to
not only use gene therapy throughout the
body. And we're already working at Life
Biosciences on getting away from viral
delivery, which is the current one. And
and just for folks to know, you know,
gene therapy has been something
developed since the 80s. It ran into
some troubles early on, but it's where
you basically are using a virus to
deliver and typically what's called an
AEV, adn no associated virus to deliver
a set of genes into targeted cells, but
that's expensive and and sometimes maybe
goes offtarget, you don't get all the
cells you want. Well, that's the big
problem with AEV is that tissue
distribution is tough and so we need
better ways to either get those viruses
evenly throughout the body um or use
other things like what are called lipid
nanop particles those are also like mRNA
vaccines exactly though you know for
those that questioning what what about
the vaccines maybe we won't get into
that I know vaccines got a bad name in
the last yeah this is obviously not a
vaccine this is you deliver uh genetic
material inside these little particles
and those there's really good
technologies actually um there's a
company that I'm advising called
Legandal and they they use AI to find
proteins that you could put on the
outside of these little particles and
direct them to anywhere you want them to
go. So getting back to what you asked me
about what does the future look like? I
think we can either go into the doctor
and have an injection of that genetic
material and we become transgenic humans
that we can turn on these three youthful
Yamanaka genes they're called and every
time we want to get rejuvenated or we
have an injury we need to heal quickly
we turn them on. How do you do that?
Well, we've engineered it so you can
just take an antibiotic for a few weeks.
It's doxycyc. So you take a course it's
pretty safe actually very very safe and
uh you turn it on. Now, that's that's
what I can see happening with already
technology that's going into humans. But
if we're if we're successful in what
we're doing in my lab, there's these AI
generated molecules are mimicking that.
So, the reason for having a molecule
rather than a gene therapy is not only
are they cheap, you can just swallow it
and they evenly go throughout the body
typically. And so, imagine in 10 years
you you just take a pill for 4 weeks and
you get younger. That's what we're
headed towards. And I can see that being
realistically possible in the next 10
years. In fact, I can see how this is
going to happen. It's what we're working
towards in my lab. I love it. I love it.
Uh I can't wait. And I volunteered to
come first. Uh the concept of longevity
escape velocity. So uh Ray Kerszswwell,
who's been a dear friend and a mentor,
his prediction is that we'll reach
longevity escape velocity by the end of
the year 2030. And longevity escape
velocity for those who haven't heard the
term hopefully if they're listening to
this podcast they've heard it. It's the
idea that at some point in the future
for every year that you're alive science
is extending your life for more than a
year and at that point you know it
basically departs and you're going as
long as you want. I've had the
conversation with multitude of different
people and everybody's got a different
guess. Uh I just had a conversation with
Deis Hassabis uh not long ago and when
he was on 60 Minutes he said he foresaw
the end of all disease
uh by the end of the decade. So all
disease by 2035. And then Dario Amade,
the CEO of Anthropic uh at uh at Davos
said he expects that we could see a
doubling of the human lifespan uh in 10
years time.
Uh those are good uh good people to have
in the same camp you are. So what do you
think about longevity escape velocity?
Is a concept worth thinking about? When
do you think we might hit that? I don't
have a number. I'm I'm actually just on
the ground working as hard and fast as I
can with my team. Um, but I do think now
it's feasible. Uh, there was a time in
my career 5 years ago, maybe 10. Uh, I I
thought this this was so far into the
future, it wasn't worth talking about.
Mhm. Um, it's all speculation, but now
that we the information theory of aging
and the reset seems true and that we're
entering the clinic with these age
reversal technologies that can be used
multiple times, right? Not just once,
but you can keep doing it maybe 20
times, 100 times. I think it's possible
um that within our lifetime, we'll see
such the ability to reset yourself. Now,
I don't think we're going to live
forever because there's always noise and
information is hard to preserve
indefinitely.
But I do believe that we could double
the human lifespan now. And I I'm on
record and I've taken some flak over the
years from colleagues who didn't like me
saying that the first person to live to
150 has already been born.
But I still stand by that because you
know teenager today will live into the
22nd century. We have to remember that
it's not about today's two 14-year-old
boys that I keep on telling that. Yeah.
And and just think about what's happened
in the last 10 years. We just can't
imagine what's going to be in their
lifespan. And so that's why I think that
uh it's quite possible that that they
will be able to live 150 or more. But
for us the question is were we born one
generation too early? Us in our 50s 56
the answer is actually since I was 18 I
I decided damn it I don't want to be
part of the last generation to live a
normal human lifespan. That's not right.
And I I know it's coming. Just a
question of can we do it in time for all
of us? And I think the best way to
ensure that we reach that point if there
is an escape velocity is to stay
healthy. M and that's why we should talk
today about what we can do in our lives
to stay healthy into our 90s and 100
because certainly by the time you and I
are 90 or 100 the technology is going to
be there to reset our I mean at this
exponential age and what's going on with
AI and I was with Eric Schmidt uh just
recently in our last podcast and he's
like we will reach digital super
intelligence uh within the decade right
and this is not just AGI whatever AGI
means this is you know billions of fold
more intelligent than human. Um, and of
course the work going on right now of
being able to model a cell in silicone
will get there and then we'll have a
cell with David Sinclair's genome or my
genome and you know exactly which
molecules activate that or don't. Yeah.
I want to go to a basic question um
which I think is important for everybody
to understand uh the answer to and I'd
like to understand how you express it.
Why do we age in the first place? Right.
So uh we have we have the Greenland we
have the you know bohead whale lives to
200 years old. We live you know the
Greenland shark lives to 500 years old
has pups at 200 years old. Uh and we
make it to 100 on a routinely regular
basis. But why do we age? And why were
there no factors selecting for us to
live longer than that? Yeah. Well the
first answer to the second question is
there was no need. and evolution doesn't
build things that there's no need for
and on the savannah we're likely to die
from war or infection or starvation
within 50 years. So living to 100 was
was really not helpful. Um the reason
why we age is debated among academics.
But what I strongly believe based on the
evidence that my lab's been garnering
gez 25 years now is that it's not just
wear and tear. We're not just breaking
down. There aren't just things going
wrong, but it's all about information
and entropy. Yeah. And that what keeps
us young is that we have great
information. We've got our pristine
genome and our pristine epiggenome,
which are the structures that read the
genome. And those two elements of
information um they get lost over time
due to noise. And we've identified some
of the causes of that noise. DNA breaks
of chromosomes as part of that noise.
Stress on a cell. If you crush a nerve
cell, it will accelerate its aging. We
showed in the 2020 nature paper. And so
when what I think of the body not like a
lump of meat now. I think of it like a
computer and the software gets corrupted
over time. And then the great news is we
found that there's a backup copy of that
software that can be reset. Amazing.
You've not done any really any podcasts
in the last few years. So I'm super
happy to have you here. So I really want
to go into what you've learned, you
know. So the information uh theory of
aging uh you published that as part of
your book lifespan. Um uh time did an
amazing piece on you and the information
theory of aging. So I was so happy that
Mark Benoff who owns time did that. I
was like yes it's good to get the
exposure for this.
Have you? So, let's take it a step
further in explaining what what that
information of uh what that aging theory
means and have you had any new proof
point supporting that in the lab? Uh
yeah, we've come a long way since 2020.
So, just to set a little things, you
know, you get 3.2 billion letters from
your mom, 3.2 billion letters from your
dad. That's your genome. It doesn't
change over the course of your life. So,
I like to ask people like, why do you
look different at 20 and 100? Well, why
don't you look the same? Uh, and that
genome codes for what's the current
estimate? 22,000 genes. Yeah.
Thereabouts.
So, epigenetics
is
effectively
which genes are on and which genes are
off. Right? And as you age, if I just
have this right, uh, as you're aging,
the wrong genes turn on and the wrong
genes might turn off and that's causing
some of this aging effect. I can't add a
lot to that. You summed up the theory
well, and I did put it in lifespan, the
book. So, if anyone hasn't read
Lifespan, it's all in there. Um, and
book two, hopefully next year will come
out. But it it was uh a risk putting it
in that theory and all of our results
into the book because we hadn't
published it yet. Uh but uh since then
since 2020 when the book came out we
have published a couple of big papers
one in nature and one in cell and uh
it's really strong evidence now that
that the theory stands up stands up.
Yeah. What have we learned since? Well,
we're trying to figure out how is it
possible to reset a cell and get back
the original structures of the
epiggenome. And if we were to dive into
the cell, okay, let's say we're going to
pierce the membrane, go inside a cell,
then you swim down and then you see the
nucleus. There's another membrane. There
are little pores in the membrane can
swim through those. Now, we can see the
chromosomes and that's really the the
epiggenome. And what if we unwrap those
chromosomes, what we would see is the 6
ft of DNA that's in the cell of every
cell. And then but the DNA is wrapped up
in proteins. And that wrapping is
important for two reasons. One is that's
how you fit 6 ft into a microscopic
cell. But also whether it's wrapped
tightly or not determines whether a gene
is on or off. And if it's tightly
bundled, we call that silent chromatin
or heterocchromatin.
and uh a lot of the genes you want to be
switched off because you don't want a
liver specific gene on in the brain and
vice versa. So there are these bundles
of DNA and loops of DNA and when it's
bundled tightly it can't be read. It
can't be transcribed in because it's
hidden. Exactly. It's it's tightly
bundled. And actually one of the big
clues that this was relevant to aging
was when I was in the lab of Lenny
Garentia as a 25-year-old postoc and as
a team we uncovered that there were
these silent information regulator genes
called the sertuins and their job is to
bundle up DNA and at the time we're
thinking what the heck has bundling DNA
got to do with aging. We were expecting
to see antioxidant genes and tieamir
extending genes but we found these
silent information regulators and that's
why information has been key to my
research ever since. But getting back to
what happens during aging is that these
bundles and these loops they change over
time in part because the cell loses the
ability to bundle them and you get these
loops open up. Um but also because the
epigenome is changing all the time. Our
genome is stable. We don't change our
genome much and in fact mutations are
not as abundant as we thought and you
could actually I could take one of your
cells and clone you and even though your
cells are old we can start new life with
those. I love that. Right. And and so I
know one experiment set of experiments
were done actually uh took cells from 23
sequential u mice clones that showed you
know you could you could take a cell
clone the mouse grow it out take a cell
clone the mouse grow it out and they
just I think they got bored and stopped
at the end and they're still healthy
right these mice aren't getting old but
if the old theory is correct that
mutations cause aging then you just end
up getting older and older babies that
doesn't happen. So therefore, I'm very
convinced so far that the epiggenome is
the issue because going through sperm
and an egg and fertilization resets the
epiggenome so you can start life again.
But the good news is we figured out a
way to safely reset that without having
to clone yourself. Mhm. So think of it
like that as resetting the system like
going through conception without having
to be reborn. Amazing. Um so the control
of the epiggenome I know for example um
like skin has a multitude of different
proteins collagen molecules and as you
grow older one of the reasons your skin
ages is those collagen molecule the
genes those collagen molecules get
silenced and so one could imagine
unsilencing them. So we do that in lab
all the time. Yeah we have a skin
project. So yeah, you don't have to
imagine it. Okay, I will show you. I
can't wait for the product to come out.
We Yeah, we we think skin is a good
model. It also may help some some people
with wound healing and how they look,
but we we actually grow bundles of human
skin and hair in the lab. And uh for
those of you who are queasy, you may not
want to hear this, but we we open up
that organoid of human tissue that we
grow. And these are engineered to be
able to drive aging forwards and
backwards. So we can study that. But we
put them in the backs of mice and now
it's pretty funny. You can see the and
the mice give the blood supply and keep
alive. Yeah. Yeah. But you get human
black hair growing out of the back of a
mouse. Now we can age that hair, make it
gray, make it old. And now we test if we
can reverse it. And so far it looks
good. Well, if you can do that, I think
you got another huge winner. I'll never
forget at the Abundance Summit, which
I've had you speak at a couple times,
and you're going to be back in 2026.
Thank you for that. Sure. Eric Schmidt
will be our opener. You'll be our closer
that year. That'll be fun. Um, I
remember had a
biotech longevity scientist on stage and
he was talking about his technology, how
it could cure cancer, it could, you
know, increase the health of particular
organs and he's giving this entire list
of what it could do and then he says,
"And it can grow hair and the crowd
erupts in applause." You know, it's
like, "Yeah, I remember that." Uh, yeah.
So, people do care about skin and hair.
Um, but we're also we're we're learning
fundamentals about what makes cells old
and how do we reverse that and skin is
just one. So the original data set that
you know that is there that that helps
the cell remember its original state?
Um,
have you found out where that lives? Oh
well the answer is probably. Um though
I'm I'm I'm going to wait to reveal that
in detail but I have some very good
students working on that right now and
we've I I wrote a review in uh in one of
the nature journals about this. So if
anyone's interested you can go see my
ideas but basically what what we need
for this to be real is there are there's
a memory of youth in every old cell. So
what is that memory? It's got to be
probably something physical. Could be a
chemical modification of the DNA. Okay.
Chemical modifications of the proteins
like a methylation or could be
methylation. Could be something else. Um
could be some other type of novel
genetic material. Um or it could just be
proteins that permanently stick to the
chromosome and stay there until we need
them to reset. I I I figure you would
have people would have seen this by now.
Oh well. What I can say is people have
bumped into this and ignored it because
they didn't think it was important. I I
I read through all of your tweets as we
got ready for this and I love one of
these says yourselves remember how to be
young. We just need to remind them.
Exactly. And and my students are great
and that they are and I met I met I came
to your lab uh was it a month ago and I
met many of them and they are brilliant.
Yeah, they're like my children. um
actually and on some days the they're
the I love them more than my own
children but yeah they're very very
special group and they are working so
hard to change the world and make these
medicines a reality. Yeah and we'll talk
about um you know the insanity of of
funding cuts in a little bit uh and the
importance of the work that you're
doing. Um so anything else you want to
add on the uh information theory? Uh do
do you have experiments planned that
will just nail this down? When how does
a theory become like just you know
accepted gospel? In fact, uh I think it
happens at one funeral at a time. But uh
we well I mean I'm I've been very
pleasantly surprised that the theory
which is called ita for short ita okay
is being um being well accepted by the
community. Um, and there's more and more
evidence every few weeks about this. Um,
I think what what'll really convince
people is when we disrupt the the
observer we call it. So, this backup
copy based on Claude Shannon. I'm a big
fan of his and yes, you know that. And
so, for those of you who don't know
about Claude Shannon, uh, just briefly,
Claude uh, was a scientist at MIT and
Bell Labs who figured out the
information theory of communication. And
so the reason we have an internet is
because of him. And the same mathematics
and concepts uh I poached uh and use
them for aging. And so the information
theory of aging is all about the
preservation of information and having a
backup copy which at the time he called
it the observer. So we still talk in my
lab about finding the observer and the
observer keeps a backup copy of the
original signal and if you lose it by
the time it gets to the sender you can
go back and retrieve what's missing from
the observer. And so what what we think
is that the observer uh has a physical
as I mentioned that a state it's got
information there we think we found that
information it's novel biology and what
when we show if we show that breaking
that system prevents age reversal from
happening then I think that the
community will believe us. Love it. Love
it. So, we just launched about 18 months
ago something called the $101 million
Healthspan XP prize. Thank you. Yeah,
absolutely. Uh I think you're in the
process of registering for that
competition. We are registered. Oh,
you're registered. Fantastic. So, we've
had like 625 teams from around the
world.
And for those who haven't heard me speak
about it before, this is an X-P prize,
one of our largest. Uh we raised $157
million.
Uh GSK is a big sponsor of it as well.
But our primary two sponsors are
gentleman Chip Wilson, the founder
Lululemon who has a muscular distrophy
called FHD. Um and he put in 36 million.
And then a group out of Saudi Arabia
called Hevolution. Think health and
evolution. They put in 40 million. I'm a
multi-million dollar donor. Uh we have a
lot of incredible people who are
supporting this. And the goal is, can we
get the smartest people in the world,
including you, working on reversing the
loss of cognition, immune, and muscle?
Uh, and I'm amazed the variety of
different approaches, and I'm excited
that uh that your lab will be
participating, but we're seeing like uh
a huge range. I mean from cellular
medicines to gene therapies to so I want
to ask you beyond your own work
the state of the union for you know age
reversal uh for longevity uh is it still
an uphill battle in the scientific world
in the funding world um because it used
to be a stigma if you said you're doing
age reversal work it was like oh this
person's insane. Yes. Um has it gotten
has that gotten better? Not much.
especially age reversal. It's there's
still the old school in my field that
doesn't like the word reversal. Um but
it's somewhat better that at least
saying that you work on longevity isn't
a stigma. Um and there's there's a lot
more funding outside of academia for
this of course but in academia there's
less money than ever uh to study this
topic which is surprising given how much
potential it has to change medic. Yeah.
The interesting thing is it's coming a
lot of the uh funding from this is
coming from the crypto community.
There's a great alignment between you
know people who believe in crypto is a
long you know bitcoin long-term vision
for capital as well and longevity. We've
seen Jeff Bezos and Yuri Milner back
Altos. We've seen uh Brian Armstrong uh
back New Limit. We've seen Sam Alman
back Retro. So it's good to see some of
these multi-billionaires backing these
things. I mean, I for one, if I had that
level of capital, I'd be backing like
all of them. Yeah. Well, one or more of
these companies could dominate uh
pharmaceuticals in the 21st century. I
mean, it is a trillion multi- trillion
dollar marketplace. Yeah. I mean, I'm on
stages and perhaps you are too, and I
ask, okay, you're 70 or 80 years old.
You know, this is a room of family
offices, wealthy individuals, and um you
know, you're slowly degrading as people
do in that in the last decades. And
someone comes up to you and says,
"Listen, here is a therapeutic. It will
give you an extra 20 healthy years, not
20 healthy years right now, like where
you were, you know, in your 50s.
How much of your wealth would you give
for that?"
And if they're honest, it would be the
vast majority, you know, 80 plus
percent. And when I think about that,
that is, you know, tens of trillions of
dollars. So, uh, I think it's a giant
market. I I'm hopeful that we'll see a
lot more funding coming in, uh, from
from people both philanthropically and
investment wise. Me, too. Me, too.
Actually, the the story I I like is uh
if you ask someone in their 30s, what
would you do uh to trade with Warren
Buffett? Yeah. Uh no one says they'd
trade with him, no matter how much money
he has, because he's older. Yeah. So,
the years you have are worth everything
to you. Yeah. More than money. Agreed.
Agreed. Everyone, as you know, earlier
this year, I was on stage at the
Abundance Summit with some incredible
individuals. Kathy Wood, Mo Gadat,
Venode Kosla, Brett Adcock, and many
other amazing tech CEOs. I'm always
asked, "Hey, Peter, where can I see the
summit?" Well, I'm finally releasing all
the talks. You can access my
conversation with Kathy Wood and Mogadot
for free at dmandis.com/summit.
That's the talk with Kathy Wood and
Mogadot for free at
diamandis.com/summit.
Enjoy. I'll ask my team to put the links
in the show notes below.
What else are you seeing out there that
could be a viable age reversal
therapeutic? Um, are you seeing any
particular without naming necessarily
labs or anything but approaches? Uh,
well, there's a few. So, I work on
epigenetic reprogramming at life
biosciences and uh and these companies
you just mentioned, they're also chasing
us. So, we we started a little earlier
than they did, but they're they're
trying to catch up. So that's a big area
and why I'm hopeful that one or more of
us is going to succeed. Um so that's a
whole I think that's for me the most
promising. That's why I'm putting my own
money into it as well. Uh what else is
important? Well, I think that that
there's factors from the blood. So we
know that plasma feresis exchanging your
plasma has some benefits and looking
looks looking better all the time. Like
therapeutic plasma exchange. That's
right. Yeah. I've done that five times
now. Right. Yeah. I've uh I think I've
done it maybe a few times, but I I
really believe in it because there's
there's a lot of animal data and some
human data coming that looks good, but
what is it about that that's beneficial?
We're actually trying to turn that into
a pill, but stay tuned for that. Um cuz
it'll be easier than machine for an
hour. Um but that sounds promising,
right? That there's something in our
blood that's keeping us old or fresh
that comes in that makes us young.
There's some factors already companies
are working on, but I think there might
be a few really good ones that you could
take as a drip and rejuvenate. Uh there
was a promise of GDF11 years ago. I mean
the problem is a lot of these companies,
you know, get funded with seed capital,
but you know, being a biology
medical company is expensive and they
run out of capital. Um yeah, it is. And
I think there's something that we
haven't found yet that's going to be
more rejuvenative. So, we're screening
these proteins in the blood and uh and
genes that that do epigenetic
reprogramming. Uh and so you could
imagine that there's a peptide perhaps
or or a protein that is circulating in
the blood and when it circulates it it
triggers these genes that give
rejuvenation. So, we're looking for
that. Uh stem cells, it's been a bit
slow, but we're starting to see a
resurgence of of stem cell interest and
approval. So the FDA now approves
certain types of stem cell therapy.
Yeah. And we've just seen states begin
to become much more lenient. So Florida
is in the process of passing regulation
to allow you to do stem cell treatments
in state. I think it was Utah is there
already. Yeah. other places, which is
great because you know before this you'd
go to Panama or Costa Rica or Antigua to
do it, which is fine except you don't
have your medical team around you and
you're operating XUS, right? So
presumably Fountain Life is going to get
into that. Yeah, Fountain Life, we have
uh two centers right now in Naples and
Orlando, and we're opening up Miami. And
those will all have uh hopefully the
most advanced stem cell therapeutics
available, as well as other cellular med
like NK cell supplementation. Yeah.
Which kill cancer cells. Yeah. And
natural killer cells, your innate immune
system, you know, kill cancers. We're
always developing cancers and we depend
on our immune system to find them and
kill them. And the same NK cells also
hunt down, you know, infected, virally
infected cells. Yeah. Well, we're
working on a new type of stem cell, a
very rare type. Okay. We should we
should talk cuz there's something that
there's a stem cell that actually turns
into the tissue that it lands in and
that that's different than current stem
cells. Oh, interesting. Okay. I think
that area has promise too. Um,
scinsesscent cell killing chemicals
somewhat promising. I saw Altos bought a
company or is merging with a company
that works on that. Mhm. Um it's been a
little slow, a little bit disappointing
to uh with um Unity. Yeah. I was so
surprised. So Unity Biosciences goes
public and then their data comes back
and they crash and they're slowly slowly
eating their way back. It wasn't a
complete failure. It just they didn't
reach the end point. So it's there's a
lot of variability. So that's part of
the issue. But I think um they'll
they'll keep pushing on and they'll
they'll find something. These scesscent
cells are important. We know from a lot
of studies that if you delete these
cells, you can improve metabolism and
and a bunch of other can you can you use
epigenetic reprogramming to move
scesscent cells back to normal healthy
cells? We have a a project in my lab on
that and so far it looks like yes we can
do both rejuvenation of stem cell of
scinesscent cells so that they they
don't cause havoc. So they normally
cause a lot of inflammation and uh even
cancer. So we can stop that with
reprogramming but in some cases we can
even rejuvenate them so they grow again.
Normally they're sitting and they don't
grow. Just for folks there's something
called the haylick limit right which is
was it 50 cell replications thereabouts
that a cell should replicate 50 times
and then have the decency to die and if
it doesn't it can become a cancer cell
or a scesscent cell which is pumping out
these inflammatory factors. Yeah. And so
you can either kill them or you can cure
them. And so we it looks like we can
cure them, but we're not sure if that's
a good thing. We have to figure out if
curing a sin cell will just give us more
problems. But at least in tissue
culture, it looks like reprogramming
does work in that regard. And also, you
might somebody might be asking, you
might be asking if you reprogram a
cancer cell, what happens? Oh yeah,
fascinating. I have good news on that
front. Okay. Uh now one of my graduate
students has been working on this for a
few years and we have a lot of evidence
that many types of of cancers are killed
by reprogramming which is interesting if
you think about it. Oh so you have a
cancer cell it's growing you've
discovered it at at stage three or stage
four and it's through different parts of
the body. You hit it with an epigenetic
reprogramming
cocktail, right? And it has a decency to
die. Well, I think it freaks out and
realizes it wakes up from its uh its
zombie-like state and says, "Oh my
goodness, my chromosomes are messed up.
I better kill myself." Cuz one of the
ways to to become a cancer cell,
vulnerable of it, is to ignore its DNA
damage. They're filled with DNA damage.
Yeah. Um and when we wake them up, they
can So if you wake up a normal cell, it
goes back and it gets younger. But if
you wake up a cancer cell, it looks like
it realizes it it should kill itself and
it does. Amazing.
That's crazy amazing. Um, all right. So,
I want to dive into a couple of your
companies that I'm tracking. Uh, I've
had them on my stages at the Abundance
Platinum event, which I do every fall.
Um, for those of you interested, uh,
David and I will be together in Boston.
Our Abundance Platinum trip this year is
the last five days of September. If you
want more information, you can go to
abundance 360.com/longvity.
Um, Life Biosciences and Metro Biotech,
two very cool companies. Let's talk
about each of those. Should we start
with Life Biosciences? This is the more
recent one. This was founded in 2017 18.
And they're the ones that have shown in
monkeys that you can
basically cure blindness and get vision
back. And so the first studies will be
in January if all goes well. So you've
gone originally from mice to monkeys, so
non-human primates. and it worked as
expected in both cases. It it worked
better than expected actually. Um and so
far there's no signs of any reason why
we shouldn't go into humans next year.
It's going to depend on the FDA, but
we're planning to submit what's called
an IND shortly. And uh hopefully by this
time next year, we'll know if it's
working because the studies are straight
into patients. And so is it a a single
injection? What is it? Oh, good
question. Um it's a single injection. Uh
so with macular degeneration it's very
common to get one injection or more. Um
you don't feel it it's nothing bad. Um
and what this virus does so the AEV you
mentioned goes into the nerves at the
back of the eye and we just turn it on
by giving the patient some antibiotic
doxy. Right. Yeah. And uh which which is
by the way is just the trigger. Yeah. Uh
that turns on uh that segment of DNA. It
just Yeah. So we we put in those three
genes as on inside the virus. Mhm. So we
normally have these genes. We're not
changing the genome, but by putting
these three genes in the virus, we can
control them better. And now they're
what's called docs inducible. And we
could have used any chemical. Doesn't
have to be doc. But docs is such a safe
easy way. And it's been in research for
decades. So we we chose that. But yeah,
so by this time next year, we should
know if it can uh improve vision in
people that have gone blind, either from
a stroke in their eye or from glaucoma.
Amazing. How big will your phase one be?
You think it's a small study, right? You
you start with one, then two, then 10.
Yeah. Um, and we're just raising money
to go into our phase 2 study already.
Awesome. Any other any other elements of
life biosciences besides that specific?
Well, some of it's uh, you know, I'm
bound by confidentiality, but I I can
say in general that the company has
that's phase one for the company. Stage,
let's call it stage one, not to confuse
it with clinical trials. Stage one is
proof of concept in the eye. Does it
work? Um, two shots on gold, two
diseases. Stage two for the company,
which is already underway, is using AI
to convert to chemicals, so you have a
pill instead. Or an LNP, which is the
lipid nanoparticles, so you don't use
viruses. Whole body rejuvenation.
They're already doing that. And then uh
so stage three would be going into
multiple diseases and eventually whole
body rejuvenation. All right. So let's
let's pause right there and focus in on
this. So I think one of the realizations
is for those who develop a disease when
you were younger you didn't have the
disease. And so if you're able to
actually induce some type of age
reversal, you know, does that cure the
disease? In mice, it's working great. Um
so for instance, glaucoma is an age-
related disease. You make the eye young
again in the animal, the disease goes
away. The body can heal itself. And
that's been really not the approach of
medicine as we know it. Medicine, as you
know, you're you're a trained doctor, is
oh, we we treat the symptoms of this
disease and slow it or cure it. But we
don't use the body's own healing
properties. Now, we've uncovered the
ultimate healing property. We believe
that we've uncovered the ability that
salamanders have to regrow grow limbs
and fish grow new tails. Similar process
and we just turn on these embryionic
genes and now we get youth and now the
body can heal itself. So besides vision,
what else have we tried? Well, in my
lab, we've done Alzheimer's disease,
cured. Wow. Uh some muscle diseases
cured. Uh ALS,
pretty cured. Uh and that's important
cuz in uh my partner's family, we have
ALS. So that's we're rushing to fix that
one. Uh we published it with a
collaborator um that we could uh
alleviate multiple scerosis with this as
well. So, so far we have not seen a
disease or an injury that could not be
effectively treated with this therapy.
Now, doesn't mean everything can be
cured, but what it's telling me is that
diseases that we've been treating uh
really we've just been addressing the
symptoms, not the underlying cause. And
finally, now we're treating what's
really underlying most diseases, which
is the aging universal aging process
itself. And and the the challenge is
today's medical system is built all
around, you know, just treating the
symptoms. It's built around keeping you
alive and treating what's possible but
not curing you. I mean, it's it's really
quite insane. Whole body rejuvenation
again by taking a set of pills. Uh do
you so
we don't see like one arm get younger
than the other arm. We don't see any of
that going on. Uh so the the notion is
that if you're going to be able to
reverse the aging of a particular
system, skin or muscle or or or uh you
know hypatic that it's going to hit all
tissues, all organs.
Well, that's the ultimate goal and we're
already testing in mice uh how that
works. Uh there was another lab, our
collaborators uh out of George Church's
lab where we collaborating with George,
you know, George, he's in my department
at Harvard. Um we collaborated initially
on building these these viruses and they
did the experiment that I thought was
really interesting, which was just to
inject the virus not just into the eye,
but inject it into the vein of a mouse.
And if we're right, the mice should be
should live longer. And even though this
was a hailmary experiment, not
optimized, those old mice that they
treated lived another 109% longer. Huh.
Okay. So, I have to ask you this
question at this point. I you know, we
talk about mice. Mice are the mo, you
know, lab lab mice are are experimented
on everything. And a typical lab mouse
lives how long? 24 months, 36 months.
Yeah. Yeah. 20 28 months. 28 months.
Okay. Why aren't we seeing mice that are
living not two years but 10 years at
this point? What's going on there?
Because I I think we were taking the
wrong approach. What what happened to
the field unfortunately in the And by
the way, I just I just noted noted this
real quick for for reference. In June of
1982, uh, Richard WeinD and Roy Walford
at UCLA showed that, uh, life extension
of 30 to 40% was possible through
calorie restriction to get a mouse to
what is currently the record of 53
months. So, you just have to starve the
mouse and you can almost double its
lifespan, which I don't think anybody
here wants to do. No, it it'll certainly
make life feel longer. But yeah, those
guys showed early on that that you can
extend the lifespan through diet, but uh
it's not pleasant. But now we're seeing
combination drugs. There was one
published last week that combination of
two anti-cancer drugs uh could extend
lifespan of mice 30%. So we're we're
approaching the the same levels of
extension as we saw with those early
studies, but ultimately we want to make
mice live times longer, 10 times longer,
live. Do you think we'll get there?
Well, I mean, and I don't care about the
mouse living longer. I just want some
additional evidence that, you know, we
move the needle. Yeah. Well, our field
has made lower organisms live 10 times
longer. So, what is it about mammals
that's harder? I think we were just
taking the wrong approach. We were
saying, "Oh, let's try this molecule
that turns on this longevity pathway or
that longevity pathway." Most of these
longevity pathways that we worked on
starting in the 2000s in in with with
molecules to tweak them, um, we were
just slowing aging. we weren't reversing
aging. I think with this new age
reversal approach and these
technologies, the gene therapy and these
new cocktails that we have in my lab, we
have a much better chance of being able
to repeatedly reverse aging and get them
out to a lot maybe 5 years. And this is
I'm excited about this cuz remember I
said over the holiday break, yes, within
4 weeks we made them basically young
mice again. Yes. Uh we want to try this
over the lifespan and we've got a good
chance I think of when might you do
that? When might you run that
experiment? Well, as soon as we have the
money to do that, right? So, let's All
right. We're gonna we're gonna talk
about money in just a little bit. Um, I
do want to hit on a basic idea that I
want people to understand uh which is
the idea of these seven uh certuin genes
or these proteins and the battle between
uh between DNA repair and epigenetic
drift. Right? So if I understand from
reading your book and speaking to you
what we have are these seven certuituins
uh that are conserved across almost all
life. Yeah. Even bacteria. Yeah. Even
bacteria. And as they have two functions
in the cell, right? One is to repair DNA
damage and one is to make sure that the
right genes are on and the right genes
are off. Is that basically the case?
Yeah. Yeah.
And as we get older, and I'm pitching
this back to you because this how I
explained on stage, we're accumulating
some DNA damage. And of course, the, you
know, the sertuins are are going back
and forth between these two functions.
And as we get older, our internal NAD
levels drop by as much as 50%. Right?
And NAD is sort of the energy currency
in the cell that powers these
fertuitans. And so if they're having
less energy and having to go back and
forth between DNA repair and epigenetic
drift, our epigenome loses and we get
aging. Is that correct? Mostly. Okay,
correct me where I'm off. Even without
the decline in NAD, we have problems.
And we showed this in a mouse that we
published in 2023 in the journal cell
was that even if we distracted the
certuins from their main role of
silencing genes when a mouse was young
that was enough to make them age 50%
faster. Um and these were called the ice
mice. Okay, the inducible changes the
epigenom mice. And so we created
non-mutagenic cuts and uh that
distracted the sertuins from where they
were on the chromosomes and they they
went elsewhere and often didn't come
back to where they belonged and that
just for 3 weeks was enough to trigger
the domino effect of aging in those
animals. And they didn't just look old,
they were old by every measure. Their
tissues were old, their physiology was
old, their DNA methylation clocks were
older. Uh, and then we also did a little
experiment to reverse their tissues at
the end just for some fun. Just for some
fun. Uh, your lab must be a blast to
work in. I wish I go back to my medical
school days and come and knock on your
door and volunteer. Let's talk about AI
in your research. Uh, cuz that's new
since we last really went deep. I mean,
the entire the explosion of the AI field
and understanding especially is applied
to basic sciences. So, uh, tell me how
are you using it? What's it doing for
you? Well, it's central to everything
now. Uh we barely run an experiment
without consulting our AI uh uh agents,
but we one of the well, let me tell you
about two areas. I think it'd be
interesting. The first is in
visualization. We've developed
algorithms. It's called dash AI. uh I
forget what it stands for but basically
the the idea is that we can visualize
old and young cells uh using a
microscope and tell very quickly within
nanconds whether what age those cells
are just by looking at them. Fascinating
and that's important if we're and as we
are screening for genes and molecules
that control and reverse aging measuring
measuring what matters. Yeah. Yeah. And
so we have a you know a a curve that
that uh stretches from 20 year old cells
or cells from 20 year olds skin cells to
93 year olds and within nanconds you can
not you but the computer looks at the
image and can say all right those cells
were 93 last week and now they're 20.
Huh. And so we have chemicals that do
that. So that just gives you super rapid
screening of all kinds of chemicals.
Yeah. So that that's using robotics and
AI visualization. That's one aspect.
Yeah. But really what blows me away is
the other part which is we believe we
found the four main levers to reverse
aging. What I mean by that is that there
are enzymes that control the epiggenome.
There are four main pathways and you
want to uh pull back the lever. So
inhibit three of those and push one. And
that combination is the winning one. And
so we have chemicals that do that, but
they're cocktails. And we've published
some of these. These cocktails uh work
on these four levers, but what we really
want is just one simple safe molecule
cuz it's easier to develop as a medicine
that does those four things. Now, if
you'd said to even a pharmaceutical
company with a billion dollars, could
you do that? They would have said
probably 5 years ago, no way. Yeah.
Right. Doing one of those lever pulls is
hard enough. We're talking decades and
billions of dollars. Yeah. Optimizing
and physical screening and making the
molecules by hand as chemists, but now
we can just take all known molecules and
virtually screen them in a couple of
months against all those four targets
and come up. And so when you say take
all known molecules, we're talking about
actually physically doing this in a
petri dish. No. No. Goodness. Take
millions of So what are you actually
doing? Yeah. Well, we we virtually dock
them into the enzymes and the AI is is
uh precise enough to create a an actual,
you know, sort of physical model. Oh,
for sure. Deis and his team solved all
of the structures as you know. And so
that that made this all possible. Now we
can just do the crunch uh number
crunching. And so yeah, so normally this
docking would be done by hand by a
person would take days to do and now
it's just done like this this this and
you can do billions uh actually
trillions and there are libraries of
virtual molecules but also there are
actually physical libraries. So what's
happened is we've now got a set of 100
top candidates
some synthetic some natural and we can
just order them like you would on Amazon
bring in uh your chemicals and put them
through our AI assisted screening.
Crazy. So earlier you said it was going
to be a cocktail of of four molecules
that you're trying now. Yeah, we
published six and we're now down to
three. Three and if we're if all and you
believe you can get it down to one.
Well, we're testing them now and they
look good so far. Amazing. Amazing. I
want to turn to a to a subject that is
um that's a bit painful uh and recent
and uh and very impactful about this
longevity future which is funding.
Um it's been a travesty of the you know
massive cuts in science. Uh and I know
you've been hit hard by it. How hard
have you been hit?
Uh well I I spend more time as a
psychiatrist now than a doctor uh than a
scientist. It's it's tough you know that
the poor kids in my lab who are innocent
in this are really suffering. What
percentage of your lab uh is funded
through that of government grants? Uh
the majority is government uh funded and
all of those grants were terminated.
100% of those grants were terminated.
Yeah. They're all gone.
Any explanation as to why? Uh Harvard's
in this the the target of uh federalism.
Oh, it's not just the Doge activities.
It's Harvard's being specifically
they're singled out for quote unquote
anti-semitism, but taking it out on my
poor students who like my own kids, it's
it's rough. Well, they're taking it out
on the rest of us, too. If the science
gets delayed by a year, that just puts,
you know, another po another percentage
of the population at risk of dying.
Well, we may never know what medicines
will never exist in our lifetime because
of this, unfortunately, because the
Harvard Medical School is a crown jewel
of research in the world. And to stop
all that research, I met one of my
colleagues in the cafeteria last week.
And he's a leading guy in in his field.
And uh I said, "What are you going to do
now that you've got no money?" He goes,
"I had a good run. I'll go home. I might
write a book." It's done. He's over. His
career is ended. He's done. So, I'm not
giving up. I I'm going to fight. you
know it's too important to give as you
should and I want to help you. Uh you
know one of the things I realized is
probably the single thing that the US
could do to solve the US debt
is give people an extra 20 years of
health. Yeah. Absolutely. We've crunched
the numbers. I know. So so talk about
that. You did there was a study at
Harvard London School of Business and
Oxford on that. What was what did the
study say? What was the financial
implication here? Yeah. So I I teamed up
with a couple of great uh economists um
and they
calculated that in the US extending
healthy lifespan just by one year by
keeping people out of nursing homes and
giving them back to the community and
making them productive was a value to
the US economy of $86 trillion. That's
just one year. That's that's doable. 36
or 86? Did I say 36? No. No, you said
86. Is it? I think it's 86. It is 86
million. 86 billion. No, 86 trillion.
Wait, we will fact check that. Okay. But
uh and then it was 366
or 7 trillion for 10 years. Yeah. Yeah.
It's a lot. These numbers are
staggering. This is like the defense
budget. I mean, this is people staying
active and generating in the economy and
not having to pay out on health care
costs. That's what it is. And then
people spend money, right? They're
they're traveling and they're buying
things. I use my father as a as a role
model and you know he's on he's on our
program or whatever he's doing well. Um
the update on him is he's turning 86 and
when most men at his age are in the
ground or on the shelf he is as young as
he was when he was in in his 40s, right?
He he acts, moves, travels, thinks,
enjoys his life like we do. And he's not
slowing down at all. He still drives at
night without glasses, you know, and he
has to take a test cuz he's old, but you
know, he passes with flying colors. So,
think about if the population on average
was like him. Yeah. What kind of a world
would it be? These people are valuable.
There's every life is valuable. You can
even put dollars on every life's value.
It's it's millions. I tell people, you
know, if you're if you're 80, uh, but
you feel like you're 50, you've got all
of your relationships, are you going to
want to retire or are you going to want
to just, you know, you go for the next
thing? I mean, the reason people retire
is they're in pain. Uh, they're out of
energy or they're forced to by
regulation. Yeah. Or or you don't like
your job, but there's there's skill
baticals and we live in a world where
you can reinvent yourself pretty
quickly. And so I I look look forward to
people like my dad who started a new
career in his 80s. Yeah. He was now
supervising clinical trials and he's
giving back to the community. He's
living with one of my nephews who's
raising my dad. My my dad at 86 nearly
86 is raising his nephew. It should be
the other way around, right? But now
he's so healthy he's he's taking care of
his grandkid. And uh you know it's
better that way because imagine life the
other way around. And you don't actually
have to imagine it. just go to Japan
where people our age are taking care of
not just their parents, sometimes their
grandparents and their kids and
sometimes their grandkids. That's a huge
burden on a generation to take care of
both the people who are sick older than
them and the young people who either
don't have jobs or need help in other
ways. David, how much funding did your
lab lose in total? Uh it was millions.
Um, and we're just at the beginning of
some of these grants. And one of the
grants, by the way, was a career grant
given to Kelly Rich, a posttock who uh
has actually been speaking out in the
media as to the the the cruelty of of
these cuts to her and the lab. She was
working on ALS in a race to try and help
Serena's mom. Wow. And we were making
good progress. We showed that these
reprogramming chemicals and genes could
treat neuromuscular disorders in mice.
and we're not that far away with AI of
having something that she could take as
a pill perhaps some natural molecules
and to have the funding cut without
really any explanation was more than a
blow to us and so we've lost a lot of
money and and also the the spirit to go
on. We have a lot of amazing people that
watch this podcast. A lot of people who
have have made their their wealth in
digital assets uh and who are
entrepreneurs and I think there's a very
close connection between those who are
deep in in crypto in Bitcoin and
Ethereum and those who love longevity. I
mean there's just they go they go in in
connection. So uh I want to do two three
things. Um uh and I mentioned you
beforehand. I want to do this and this
is not something you asked for. It's
something I want to do. Um there are and
I'll speak into camera here. There are
three ways that I want to uh invite you
to join me in supporting David's
research uh and his lab. Again, this is
not a request he made. This is something
I feel compelled to do because I care
deeply about this work. I care deeply
about having it available uh personally
for my family and for all of us. And
hopefully what you've seen here so far
convinces you that there is real value
that's being created. And honestly, for
the small amount of money that that you
spend, it's a travesty cuz it does
compare a few million dollars to
trillions of dollars of upside, let
alone lives lives being saved. So, um
there is a link we're going to put in
the show notes. uh that is to uh donate
directly to his lab at lab at Harvard.
Uh it's taxdeductible. Uh you can donate
from $50 to $1,000 and welcome you to do
that and um I'm sure Dave would be super
grateful for it. Uh the second thing is
uh we're going to put up a QR code here
uh for a moment. You can pause the video
or go to the YouTube video if you're
listening this on Audible to see it.
We'll also put the links in the show
notes below where you can link to a
Coinbase account where you can donate
Stablecoin, Bitcoin, or Ethereum. And I
welcome you to I I really I hope you
guys shock us and surprise us with your
generosity. If if you're one of the many
Bitcoin whale billionaires out there
listening to this podcast, I mean,
imagine what your donation could do. Um,
it could move the needle here in an
extraordinary way. Uh, I always like to
lead whenever I'm asking for any kind of
donation. So, uh, something I'm
proposing, I just proposed it to David
before this, is the creation of a a
program called Friends of Sinclair Lab.
Uh and David, we talked about this. Um
uh this would be for I want to keep it
intimate enough so that the people who
donate at this level uh get the benefit
of building a relationship with you and
getting early access to knowledge. But
the idea here would be um people who
donate $50,000 and I'm going to be the
first to step up and donate 50k.
Historically, my largest donations have
been to the X-P prize foundation uh and
to, you know, our longevity, our
healthspan prize and also to Dean Cayman
at First Robotics and also to David Tony
Robbins and I donated a4 million early
on to support David's work. Um, so this
idea of friends of Sinclair Lab, uh, if
you want to join me at a 50K or greater
level, uh, send an email to, uh, let's
see, I'm going spell it out here.
Friends of Sinclair Lab. So,
Fosslmandis.com.
Uh, my team will autorespond to that,
get some information about you. Please
don't use it as a as a email to
communicate with me or David. That's not
what its purpose is. If you're serious
about this, go ahead and send send an
email there with your contact details
and we'll respond. Uh, and what we
talked about for those who join the
Friend of Sinclair Lab
um, let's see what we we said. Number
one, uh, we'll do a quarterly Zoom. You
know, I expect this will be a group of
10, 12, you know, hopefully 20 people
that we'll spend some time with. You'll
do personal Q&A with them. Uh, and we'll
set up a dinner either at the Abundance
Summit in March um, of every year in LA
or we'll set up a dinner at the Platinum
uh, you know, our abundance platinum
longevity trip. Sound good? So far,
yeah. Okay. Well, there's other things.
Okay. What What else? Well, I think that
the the friends who get to know me
personally like you have Yeah. Uh, we do
spin out companies. There's these age
reversal chemicals are going to be spun
out soon. They're huge. Cosmetic, hair,
skin. So friends of the Sinclair label
have uh you know burst right on on
brilliant knowledge and a chance to get
in get in as a seed investor share with
me in that. Yeah. Yeah. I also think uh
I've been lucky enough to have spin outs
myself. So I'll also put in my $50,000.
So we've got $100,000 so far, guys. So
let's do it. The future's too important
to not let it happen in our lifetime.
Yeah. Agreed. I mean, we hold two
different futures in superp position and
we have to choose which one we want.
Yeah. Let's not be in the universe
where, you know, things don't happen.
Let's make us Yeah. get us into that
universe where we're just thriving as a
species. I love that. I love that. So,
please join me. Please join David. Uh
it'll be a blast. I'll get a chance to
spend more time with you. I mean, this
is a subject that just, you know, gives
me such incredible hope, right? You
know, this is the most exciting time
ever to be in live. And if you want more
of it, we're going to make it happen
right here, right now. All right. And
can't wait to see who joins us on the
Bitcoin crypto and uh universe. So,
well, I just want to make a comment
about crypto in general. I think we're
in a new world. We have a currency that
will exist for thousands of years, and
it's it's only going to go up. But it it
first of all I want to talk about the
people that that own crypto. The ones
that I know and Brian Armstrong is one
of them. The they have the power to do
big things and they can come together as
a community by either funding things or
giving incentives to people to achieve
greatness. Yeah. The other thing is
think about this that the currency is
only going to go up and the longer you
live the more you're going to make. Um,
but in general, I think that especially
when it comes to to Bitcoin, I think the
people that that own Bitcoin can really
do great things with that. It's an
amazing currency. I own some myself as
well, uh, which is what I'm going to use
to to donate here. Uh, and I I I've seen
this incredible correlation between
people who love longevity and people who
love Bitcoin. Uh, for me, uh, Bitcoin
and Ethereum are my largest assets more
than anything else. And uh I do believe
that we're going to have a world where
as we're living, you know, past 100,
maybe hundreds of years, having some
asset that doesn't like just vaporize
and get taxed away to nothing is super
important. Yeah. Well, what what's the
killer of longevity assets? It's
inflation. And so the cryptocurrency is
is a way to avoid that. And it's only
going to go up. You know, we can live a
thousand years. We can go to other
planets and we can own crypto. That's
the future. And we all have that one
thing in common right now. Aging as a
disease and a common biology to solve.
We do. We'll stay healthy for longer,
but ultimately we have to be able to
reverse aging if we're going to make it
for a long time. So, while we work on
it, let's stay healthy, but then let's
just fund these research projects and
make the future a reality. Yeah. David,
I want to talk about another area um
which and then we're going to go to AMA
questions. have a I put out, you know, a
tweet. I'm going to mute with David.
What questions do you have? Like, so we
picked, you know, the top 20 or so that
were provocative and fun. But before we
go there, I want to talk about what your
longevity protocols are. So, what are
you doing? I mean, honestly, you look
great, dude. Uh, and I appreciate the
fact that you're a poster child for this
industry. Hey, thanks. Yeah, I you know
I went online and or at least my my team
did and found something published uh at
nad.com. I'm not sure how how real it is
because I don't think it's they probably
put it together from conversations
you've had. I'll put the link uh in the
show notes as well for folks if they
want to see at least what was reported.
But let's run through these and tell me
what's real, what's not real. Yeah.
Okay. You want to see you want to see
the list here? Yeah, sure. Okay. And
what and what's the main thing? I mean,
there's a laundry list here. And I take
like 80 supplements and meds a day.
Yeah. Well, uh, you know, I I do advise
people on their longevity, so that they
get an insider look, but I'm happy to
share some of the key things to for
everybody. Um, I'm still on the the
standard stuff that was in uh, it's
become standard. It wasn't standard when
I published Lifespan, but now it's
become, you know, NN has become a
billion dollar industry now. Amazing. I
mean, honestly, due to you, and just to
clarify things, you're not backing any
of these supplement companies. In fact,
they use your name and their likeness
without your permission, right? Yeah.
Yeah. Uh my lawyers spend a fair amount
of time and my money on stopping that.
But new new companies pop up all the
time, especially overseas. But yeah, I
don't I don't currently sell anything.
Um so the the main things are so let's
start with the basics do what you do so
there's the sauners there's the exercise
weightlifting is important especially
for men or Pilates for women bit of
weightlifting and then eating is
important too um Serena is a is a
trained nutritionist and chef and
longevity expert she came in and changed
my life to four years ago I I stopped
eating a lot of meat and you gone vegan
completely 90% what would you I'd say
it's it's 90 95. Yeah. I eat out and
sometimes I I I break the rules for
celebration purposes, but I want to
enjoy life. Yeah. But I'm definitely
plant focused and and a few things
happened when I switched to plants as my
main diet. Um I felt better. Um I could
eat more, which was great cuz I love
food. Yeah. Um and my mind cleared and
that might have also been because I gave
up alcohol almost all. Yeah. Just
another point. I have given up alcohol
except for, you know, on a celebration.
Yeah. Did you notice a difference? Yeah.
I mean, I'm so sensitive to alcohol, it
just makes me sleepy and, you know,
weight gain if you're if I'm if I'm
drinking too much. But I used to have
like a little bit of wine. Now I'll
taste some wine. Tonight is an
exception. My deputy family, the Ree
family, is having the bar mitzvah, their
son. And so my friend is like, I've got
the best the best bottles of wine. And
so I said, "Okay, I'm going to drink a a
glass of wine tonight." Good. Well, you
look like you're looking after your
weight really well. So, you've I think
you've never looked so good, but uh in
ter in terms of weight, gaining weight
is a bad thing. It puts our our bodies
into abundance mode. Yeah, I've talked
before about abundance mode versus
adversity mode. We can have abundance
mode occasionally. You know, you can eat
a steak, you can eat a lot of uh food,
but for the majority of the time, you
want to be in adversity mode. So that's
why I try not to eat more than two meals
a day if I can, sometimes one. And the
plants help because the plants send a
signal also to the body. They they're
filled with polyphenols that also give
the signal of adversity.
GLP1s, let's just plug that in right
here. Uh what's the evidence right now
in your mind as a prolongevity
medication? Pretty good actually.
Certainly if you're overweight, getting
your weight down is nothing. But in
addition, someone like you and me, would
it have longevity benefits? I I think if
it's used judiciously, I wouldn't use it
chronically because there are some side
effects including muscle loss, but also
some kidney and pancreas issues
potentially even blindness is a risk.
The the disease that uh or the the
incident that we're going to treat next
year with the age reversal is called
Yeah. So that's um uh non eskeemic
arteritic nonarteritic eskeemic optic
neuropathy. Nion, right? So that the
rates of that have doubled and tripled
around the world because of these drugs.
So it's not without risk. So you got to
be careful using these these peptides.
But I think as a way to turn the body
into a more adversity mode, they're
excellent. Um I have tried them um not
to lose weight, but just to see how my
blood work turned out and I saw some
improvements. So, I think with your
doctor's advice and permission and uh
and there are many of these drugs at
this point, right? Yeah. And and they're
getting uh easier to use. So, there's an
oral version now. Yeah. Um I can see in
the future that they'll be part of
longevity programs, but but again, I'm
not endorsing them. I'm not saying you
should definitely go do it. And I think
one of the things that's important to
note, and I just again uh want to
reinforce, if you're using a GLP-1 to
lose weight, uh the challenge is you
lose the weight, you also lose muscle
and then when you stop the GLP-1, you
just put on fat again. You don't put the
muscle back on. But there's an easy
solution, right? Work out. Yeah, you
there's some effort involved, but just,
you know, some sit-ups, push-ups, and
whatever.
and and use and use the GLP-1 drug as a
way to get into new habits, right?
Getting you habits of not eating as much
or going to a, you know, uh, what meal
do you miss if you're going to miss a
meal? Breakfast. Breakfast. Yeah. And I
have a late lunch. And, uh, but the
thing with GLP1s is even if you were to
just fast and stop eating as much, you
are going to lose muscle mass. It's not
just that the drugs are causing muscle
loss. It's it's what happens when you
don't eat as much. And so really just
you do have to keep the muscle mass up.
And I wouldn't use testosterone alone to
combat that muscle loss. It really is
better to be working out to stop that.
And uh you know clearly know you're
you're a good example of that. And amen.
What source do you use? What sources are
out there? Because I remember when Tony
Robbins and I were writing uh our book
Life Force. Uh when we looked at this, a
lot of the NMN sources were not
reputable out there. And then of course
uh a lot of companies have stopped
putting NMN out for sale because of
what's going on with Metro Biotech uh
and the idea of having NMN become a
medicine versus a supplement.
So what give us some knowledge there? Uh
well the first is about NMN as as a
supplement on can you trust it and you
know I'm not in the business of testing
products that's not what I do but I do
test enem sources when I give it to mice
and we have a study that we're just
revising showing NMN extends lifespan
mostly in female mice but it did improve
frailty and a lot of health health
related things. So, we do test NMN and
we've tested a bunch of them and uh we
find that there are things in there that
you wouldn't want in there like
endotoxin which is highly inflammatory
parts of bacteria and so if you're going
to have you publish that data uh no I
won't it's it's only uh inflammatory we
we might publish it it's super useful to
have we should do that I mean some you
know somebody should be listen you've
made NMN a household name. I guarantee
the number of people Well, whether you
like it or not, because you talked about
the value of this. You didn't do it to
try and sell NMN. You did this because
you're talking about its impact on
increasing NAD levels that are
cellulite. And and I haven't made any
money off it. In fact, I've I've
invested a lot of money in clinical
trials. No, I mean, there's been like 30
$30 million worth of my money and others
to do clinical trials to test a version
of NMAN in humans. does cost me a lot to
try and validate NMN as a molecule. One
of the advantages if Metrobiotech Metro
has a particular
crystallized NMN that they're testing in
a wide range of medical conditions.
Right. That's right. And I don't see why
that they can't exist in the same
universe. That supplements which are not
under FDA approval usually they're
they're not prescribed by doctors.
there's a an ultra pure pharmaceutical
grade crystalline stable form that has
been shown to work that can be
prescribed that that's been shown even
for fish oil GSK actually our friends at
GSK made a fish oil I think it's still
available on the market it's and it's a
it's a pharmaceutical it's a drug
because of it purity yeah and and and so
but I you know the reason I would use
the metrobiotech NMN if and when it
becomes approved as a drug is because
I'm assured of quality and pure
That's right. Yeah. Yeah. And then to
get to the FDA thing, um, you know, I
see on social media people accusing me
of being the one to take it off the
market. That's absolutely not true. I
think everybody should have access to
it. Otherwise, why would I talk about
it? Um, I do think though that um there
should be some better regulation on how
pure this stuff is because there was a
study that showed that I think it was
roughly half of them didn't have what
was on the label, which is And it
degrades over time. Yeah. Exactly. In
the non-crystalline form. Exactly. Um
but what haven't actually h I'll explain
what actually happened please. Um so
Metro Biotech it's it's not my company.
I've invested in it and there's you know
a chairman and a board and so they made
the decision that they would support the
FDA in looking at NMN as a supplement.
And there's a law that says if you're
using a molecule in clinical trials, it
shouldn't be sold as a supplement. Mhm.
To protect the $30 million investment
that that the people are putting in. Um
I believe I'm on record. I'll say here
that I was not in favor of that. I
didn't want Metro Biotech to get
involved with the FDA. That was not my
decision. But I don't run that company.
Uh there are very few companies that I
actually have 100% control over. But I
am learning that it's better to have
control of a company that that you're
the figurehead of. Yeah. But in this
case, I couldn't couldn't stop that. But
I think where we're at now is that
there's some gray zone about it. I'm
seeing NN for sale. Yeah. Uh let me
clarify something. So ultimately what
you're trying to do is raise your
intracellular NAD plus levels, NAD
levels. That's the end goal. And the
certuins need that NAD to work. It's
it's the powerhouse. Yeah. So NMN can
cross the cell membrane and inside the
cell gets converted to NAD. Correct.
Yeah. You know, academics will argue
over everything. I don't think it's
still 100% agreed upon as to how NAD is
made from NN. There's some work by
Shinmai at Washington University that
there's a transporter even high up in
the gut that absorbs it into cells and
through the gut uh membrane. Um but
there are people who say oh NN has to be
broken down first before it gets into NN
NAD and then there's NR nicotenomide
robocide which which is what's used to
make NN in the cell right and so you
have this this sequence so some people
are arguing that you should take NR some
people arguing take NN other folks are
doing you know NAD IVs and am I wrong in
believing that an NAD IV is not getting
into your
Oh, I think that NAD drips will raise
the intracellular NAD probably because
it gets broken down and then then gets
reabsorbed. Yeah. But the the
unfortunate thing with NAD drips, even
though they're very popular, is that we
still rely on anecdotal anecdotal
evidence that they do something and I
would love to see some more studies on
that. But what I can say about oral
Nammen, we have spent money studying
that and we've we not when I say we, the
scientists that conducted the study and
I was one of the middle authors on that
have shown that anammen in small groups
of people improves blood pressure and
cholesterol and lipids and even seems
look like it works on strength and
endurance. So, you know, in terms of
living up to what we saw in mice, it is
looking promising. And there are at
least five clinical trials at Metro
Biotech now looking at whether it's
efficacious in a disease state. Yeah. Um
Alzheimer's, kidney function, it's all
on the website. And so with five and
hopefully six shots on goal, the idea is
that one of those will work. The other
thing that that's interesting is there's
a new molecule that they I saw that. So
MAB 626 was the old molecule. Yeah. 626
is my birthday by the way. Ah, that's
where it came from. Interesting. And
then 725 almost happy birthday. Thank
you. Uh, so 725 is the new molecule. MB
725 and that's the birthday of Anthony
SV, my great colleague who passed away
during co and uh, he was at Cornell, but
we miss him dearly. And so that
hopefully if that makes it onto the
market, it'll uh, it'll be his legacy.
Nice. A quick aside, you probably heard
me speaking about fountain life before
and you're probably wishing, "Peter,
would you please stop talking about
fountain life?" And the answer is no, I
won't because genuinely we're living
through a healthc care crisis. You may
not know this, but 70% of heart attacks
have no precedent, no pain, no shortness
of breath. And half of those people with
a heart attack never wake up. You don't
feel cancer until stage three or stage
4, until it's too late. But we have all
the technology required to detect and
prevent these diseases early at scale.
That's why a group of us including Tony
Robbins, Bill Cap, and Bob Heruri
founded Fountain Life, a one-stop center
to help people understand what's going
on inside their bodies before it's too
late and to gain access to the
therapeutics to give them decades of
extra health span. Learn more about
what's going on inside your body from
Fountain Life. Go to
fountainlife.com/per
and tell them Peter sent you. Okay, back
to the episode. All right, let's run
down uh a few of these. So, uh ficetin,
lepoic acid, uh EPA, DHA, eltorine.
Uh comments on those. Um yeah, I mean
physicin is a uh molecule we actually
first discovered to be a longevity
molecule before it was known as a uh
cenolytic. Yes. Um corsetin together.
Although the the people that now talk
about physicin just ignore our research
but that's how is that is that the
Australian uh pronunciation of itin
versus ficetin uh I think it doesn't
matter what you say f t i n but we
showed pacetin uh is a sertuin activator
just like rveratrol and uh so I think it
might be doing both things is to either
uh calm down or kill sinoscent cells at
high doses and at low doses it activates
the certuin enzyme which is what we want
because I think of NAD as the the gas or
the petrol for the enzyme and then the
accelerator pedal are these polyphenols
like physin and reserverrol and together
they have a double whammy of benefit
lapoic acid I did a PhD on that when I
was uh in Australia I've always liked it
um and then I I started taking it about
15 years ago when I was introduced to
one of my heroes uh Denim Harmon who
came up with the free radical theory of
aging and he was still in the lab at 92.
And I said, "What's your theory? What's
your what's your secret?" And he said,
"It's alpha lipoic acid." Interesting.
But the but the free radical theory of
aging has really been kind of disproven,
hasn't it? Uh yes. Uh but I still admire
him for being in the lab at 92. Sure.
But I mean I mean for those for those
people who are thinking, "Oh, I need to
be dealing with my free radicals." Um
that appears not to be one one of the
primary reasons of aging. Uh well
indirectly it is because we know DNA
breaks are going to accelerate aging.
Sure. And uh and free radicals can
damage DNA. So but it's not the the holy
grail. It's taking antioxidants doesn't
extend the lifespan of animals very
much. Okay. Uh you mentioned Eltorine
just had a paper published on it. Yeah.
It just came out in science. Um, Raphael
Al Dabo is a very good friend of mine
for 25 years and he was the one that
just showed that Eltor torine levels
don't decline apparently in humans or
monkeys or mice. That was like, you
know, I started a year ago because of
all the news about it. You know, it's
Yeah. And now now it doesn't look as
promising, put it that way. Um, and so I
would say it's not going to hurt you.
Uh, but I think there's less likelyhood
that it's going to extend your lifespan.
By the way, NMN, uh, one gram, that's
what that's what I take. Is there any if
you do two grams or three grams, is
there a problem with going more than a
gram that you know of? Well, I'm just
curious. Well, I I always I have it in a
bunch of supplements, so I'm like, no.
Yeah. Well, it's published that both one
gram and two gram have benefits. Um, and
that one gram will double your NAD and
two grams will roughly triple it on
average. Um, but I in my personal
opinion now, yeah, um, I don't think it
makes sense to go any higher. Your body
will just pee it out anyway and there's
no point taking the risk. But I know one
gram and two grams seem to be safe in
short-term human clinical trials. Got
it. Uh, we've talked about rveratrol,
spermadine, vitamin D, vitamin K. Uh,
yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Lowdos aspirin
still. Yes. Okay. And that that's
interesting because a lot of people have
heard at least through the great vine
that aspirin shouldn't be taken. So
here's the here's the deal and when you
know I actually read the papers. I don't
just uh read Twitter. When you when you
go into the literature the reason that
doctors are mostly against aspirin these
days is that they're balancing the
riskreward. Now the reward is prevention
of clots and cardiovascular risk. Now
that the risk is that you get stomach
bleeding and based on the the the the
numbers it wasn't clear if it w was
worth taking aspirin with the risk but
it that's for the average human and
there is no such thing as an average
human really medicine should be breaking
it down as to for you Peter what's good
for you do you want an aspirin or not
and and by the way I I everything we've
spoken about so far I do take including
the aspirin 81 milligrams a day 81
milligrams right baby aspirin so take a
coded Yeah, I do. Yep. So, that reduces
the risk of any stomach issues. But
here's the thing that that there are
people at risk of cardiovascular disease
and then it does make sense for them to
take an aspirin. It makes perfect sense
for me to take it cuz I genetically have
high levels of LP little A. I do too.
Yeah. By the way, I'm so excited about
the new drug that's coming out for LP
little A. Yeah. It looks promising. It
just it's in phase three. It it's it
should be coming out like in the next 12
months. Yeah. I mean because right now
uh you know it's there's very little
that moves the needle there. Yeah. It's
really hard to bring it down. I know
from experience. Yeah. You and I the
same boat. Trimethyl glycine. Um I don't
take that. I Neither do I. No. Um I've
there's this unfounded claim that Nmen
and NAD boosters deplete your methyls
and that you need to take this to
supplement it. That's just based on wild
speculation. There's no evidence from
anything we've done that that's true.
So, I stopped taking Metformin. Are you
on it still? Uh, occasionally.
Occasionally. Okay. Uh, I'm on
bourberine instead. Me, too. Yeah. Yeah.
Now, I I found that metformin was really
rough on my stomach and the older I get,
I find it it's rougher, but bourberine
seems to be great. So, I do that. I
stopped Metformin mostly for the focus
on muscle growth. Yeah, there's that.
But also, I want to speak about that.
Please. Uh, because I find that most
people don't read the papers. And if you
do, what you see is that this claim
Yeah. even from from some doctors who
talk about this is that it blunts muscle
growth. And when you actually dive into
the data, you see that the graph was
misrepresented. Wow. Guilty is charged.
Yeah. Well, the the one thing you should
never do as a scientist is cut the
y-axis off and exaggerate the
difference. But that's what's what they
did. It's only a 5% just looks better.
Huh. All right. Let's go to the next
one. Rathomiain. So, uh, huge claims by
I mean many of the longevity experts
said, okay, the if there's one drug that
probably has longevity impact, it's
ribbomyosin.
And, uh, you know, I've been tracking
that. I've been reading on it and it's
enough up and down where I stopped
taking rapomy. I have a very low uh,
scenile cell count. Uh, how about you?
What do you think about rap me? Uh, I'm
I'm less excited about it. Yeah, it it
was the darling because it works really
well on inbred animals and seemingly
might even work in dogs. But in humans,
there was a study that came out um it
was probably 6 months ago that compared
the effect on the epigenetic age of
people in different clinical trials.
Mhm. And while some things worked really
well like Clark restriction,
um what else was important? I think a
carbos worked really well. Metformin
looked better than I thought it would.
Rapomy had no effect on the age of the
epiggenome. Yeah. And so that combined
with the known potential risks of
downregulating the immune system. Um and
let me explain later why I think that
that's bad. Um I decided only to take it
rarely. Um what occasion would you take
it on? I probably take it four times a
year. Okay. So, it just pulsed. Yeah.
And I'm monitoring myself so I know if
it has benefits or not. And I do see
some Are you You're monitoring your
immune system. You're monitoring
everything. Yeah. I monitor my immune
system. I'm counting the cells that I
have, the different types and cytoines,
inflammatory cytoines, and I want to
keep those as low as possible. Keep down
inflammation inflammaging. Um, so I want
to talk about why downregulating your
immune system might be bad. Yes. Now,
you want to downregulate your
inflammation, but you want to have
really active immune system when it
comes to cancer and viruses.
And those two things are real risks as
we get older. Sure. There are endogenous
viruses that come out like CMV. And
there's CMV is is penicious. It's and
it's, you know, it's an epidemic out
there. I mean, one thing that people
don't realize is there's something
called iminoexhaustion,
right? where your immune system is
fighting all these battles against
herpes, against CMV, against how many
different viruses do you think are
endemic in the in the human being? On
average, it's it's approaching a
thousand now when you when you do deep
sequencing. Incredible. And and if
they're fighting those viruses, your
innate system is not there to fight
cancer. Yes, there's that. And the the
other issue is that these viruses like
CMV, they lead to autoimmune disorders
potentially like CMV is linked to
multiple scerosis. Now interesting and
so you do not want CMV circulating and
that for that reason I don't want
chronic downregulation of my immune
system. Yeah. Yeah. That's important
important to note. Um
okay, let's jump into a few other
elements here. Uh so thank you for that.
Is there anything else that we didn't
talk about that's high in your
supplement med list? Oh, there's a lot
lots, but let's leave that for the So,
so maybe the friends of Sinclair Lab
will have a deeper dive. Book two book.
Okay. By the way, for those who are fans
of uh of David's first book, Life
Lifespan, which I probably recommend
more than my books, uh his next one
coming out in 2026, is called Lifespan
Survival. So, can't wait. Thanks. Um All
right. So, are there any special
supplements or additions for women that
you want to call out? Oh, gee. Well,
that's a whole separate category. Um,
and Serena, my partner, is an expert in
that and I usually defer to her and I
don't want to claim to be an expert on
female uh hormone therapy, but I do
believe that hormone therapy is
anti-aging. Uh, we see that in the
literature. Um, and also there are some
ways to delay menopause and perhaps even
reverse it. And I talk about that in my
book as well. Um, so I think mostly for
for women it's hormonal, but there's
other things like iron, protein that
they need certain times of the month as
well. Do you know Jennifer Garrison at
the Buck? Sure. Yeah. So Jennifer is
another another place that Tony and I
have supported uh her research and she
put forward uh she was at X-Prize
visionering last October and that's
where we compete kind of all these X-P
prize ideas and uh her work in what was
being called the double X prize uh for
women's longevity and particularly
ovarian longevity uh won the
competition. And so in the middle of
designing that X-P prize, which is which
will be super cool. Well, she's great.
Um I have a superstar in my lab who uh
by the way needs our support. Um Maria
uh she's a she's such a superstar. This
morning she gave lab meetings. So our
lab meetings go for 3 hours on Friday
mornings and she uh outlined her project
to use these age reversal uh
breakthroughs on women's fertility.
Well, we need to get her either
competing for the prize or helping to
design the prize for sure. Yeah. She's
also, by the way, using menstrual fluid
as a biological clock and diagn
diagnostic factor, which is a great
idea. Amazing. Amazing. So, sauna. Uh,
do you sauna? As much as I can. Yeah.
You know, I just purchased something
called the healing sauna. Um, it is a
deep infrared sauna. It's relatively
small, about, you know, about yay big.
It's got a chair in the middle and uh
your it zips up around you with your
head sticking out the top and you have
two arm slots. So, I get in the morning
uh I'm on my computer doing my email. Uh
and I'm like, you know, in about 30
minutes I get a great sweat and you you
don't want to sweat too much. You want
to sweat enough to get the toxins out,
but not so much that you start losing
other vital, right? and turn on the heat
shock proteins in your skin and maybe
deeper. Yeah, that's all important and
and the science for uh sauna now is is
irrefutable. It is it's it's a couple of
thousand dollars for this thing and it
fits anywhere. So, if you want to
increase your your So, it's super easy
and I actually I love it. I might look
into that cuz uh often the problem is we
we don't have space in our houses. So,
this and this actually it is it's it's
like the size of this table. It's no
bigger. Um, and it collapses. And again,
you sit in a a folding chair inside and
the elements are inside and you
basically zip this thing around your
neck. It's got a frame and it works.
Does it get hot enough? Yeah, it gets I
mean I get a really great uh sweat going
in 30 minutes. It's not like instantly
like 10 minutes, but I I enjoy my 30
minutes. I'm meditating or I'm I'm
watching, you know, a video, listen to a
book. What What's it called again? It's
called a healing sauna. Healing sauna.
Yeah, I think it's just healings.com.
Okay, so one big question is fasting and
fasting mimicking diet. So when I looked
into it, uh
there was a lot of confusion about
whether fasting actually moved the
needle for humans.
What do you think about it? Um I know a
lot about it. Uh in particular, I was
just recording my next podcast and and
it is on fasting and caloric
restriction. Yes. And there's 80 pages
of notes, show notes. Um, so yeah, so
you have to do fasting the right way.
There there's with all these diets that
if you do it the wrong way, it's it can
harm you, right? But you need to be
educated. You need to make sure you're
not overdoing it and you're supplying
yourself with enough vitamins, minerals,
and protein. Um, and so yeah, I I do it,
but I do it in a scientific way. And
that's part of the the challenge. If you
don't do it without having regular blood
tests at least once every few months, I
think you know it's it's probably it's
somewhat risky. But in general, fasting
has been shown for forever, you know,
since humans were. Sure. In fact,
religions have built in fasting into
their, you know, the annual clock. Yeah.
So, I still believe in the science of
fasting and it just has to be done the
right way. And actually there are some
papers that show that if you do uh a
vegan diet, this is just separate, but
and a good example, a vegan unhealthy
diet will make you live shorter, but a
vegan healthy diet will make you live
longer. You just got to make sure you're
eating the right things. And the same
with fasting. You got to time it with
your circadian rhythms. You got to eat
the right food at the right time. You
can't just eat French fries once a day
and hope that's going to make you live
longer. So, I'm I'm very vocal about the
notion that uh sugar is a poison. Me
too. It's I regard it as a poison. Yeah.
I just want to echo I mean so a couple
of data points here, right? We are
eating in our diet today if you look at
the numbers on the order of 10 times
more sugar than we did a couple hundred
years ago. And uh one of the things we
just are getting ready to publish this
data at Fountain Life, right? So
everybody coming through Fountain Life
uh we upload them. We get 200 gigabytes
of data. It's like one of the most
complete data uploads you can possibly
do in 5 hours. full body MRI, brain,
brain vascule, a coronary CT, uh looking
for soft plaque, not not calcified
plaque, right? Soft soft plaque is what
kills you these days. And if you have a
high calcium score, it doesn't mean much
unless the calcium's blocking your
coronary artery. If it's cement on the
side of the walls, it's stable, but it's
the soft plaque that could evol in the
middle of night, block your artery, and
you don't wake up. Yeah. Right. We do
lowd do lung CT. We do dexa scan,
metabolomics,
140 blood biomarkers,
uh your gut microbiome, retinal scan,
skin scan, all of that. When am I going
to get a scan? Dude, please come.
Please. No, I'm serious. No, please
come. I'd love to try. And as my as my
guest, uh we're opening up LA here in uh
the first quarter of 26. And of course,
we're operational in Dallas today. We're
opening up Houston before the end of
this year. We have New York going,
Orlando and Naples going, and uh opening
up Miami. So, we got Congratulations.
Thank you. I remember when you were just
talking about it. We looked at what
correlates highest with heart disease,
and it wasn't LP little A or
triglycerides or LDL or HDL. It was your
hemoglobin A1C,
right? And I mean it's like you can
control that. Well, you can and and it
starts with good diet and lifestyle and
exercise for sure. But the the drugs now
that are available, you can either
prevent the absorption with a carbos.
You can pee it out with SGLT2
inhibitors. You can take metformin or
bourberine. Uh and then there's others.
Um and so yeah, if you've got a good
physician, you should be able to control
your blood glucose these days. Of
course, the GLP1s you shouldn't forget.
It's It's crazy. Um, okay. One or two
more subjects. I want to go into the
AMA. We have so many fans of yours that
have written out questions here. Uh, I
just got back from Hong Kong. And one of
the things that I was speaking about
there was the notion that a breakthrough
in China works in Chicago. You know, a
breakthrough in Boston works in Beijing.
You know, we all share all eight billion
of us share the same fundamentals of
longevity. And so unlike AI, which is a
a battle sort of winner take all, you
know, the idea of being able to give
people longevity is something that is a
rising tide for everybody.
I'm curious where you know so when I run
my my platinum longevity trips we're
currently doing them uh one year uh on
even years we're in San Francisco and
San Diego which is sort of a cluster for
longevity and then on odd years like
this year we'll be visiting you and
George and a number of other incredible
people uh in Boston Cambridge and Dean
Cayman's in New Hampshire um which is
another cluster if you But what's going
on in the rest of the world? Who what's
hot? Where are the clusters of of
longevity work? Well, there are there
are nations that have stood up and said
we're we're going to invest in this. Um
and so in Asia, it's Singapore. In the
Middle East, uh pretty much all the
countries, but uh Saudi Arabia, UAE, and
now Qatar are big on longevity. Um and
then and then it's just distant third
and fourth and fifth. Uh the western
world is not really getting into it
besides the US. Um it's a little bit in
the UK, a little bit in Australia, but
other than that it's just pockets of
really good labs, but not really an
industry yet. I wish that in the same
way we just saw a couple of trillion
dollars put into AI by the Middle East
that they would get longevity religion.
I mean it's, you know, and start pouring
trillions into into this space and and I
hope we can get there. Yeah. I hope we
can get there because I do funly believe
this is, you know, you've spoken about
this. You've been uh really the first
person to speak out that aging is a
disease that when we're able to cure and
reverse this, it is going to uplift
every society. And God knows that
South Korea, Japan, China, Italy, most
of Western Europe need longevity.
They're disappearing as nations. Yeah.
Well, that's the other thing. It it used
to be that we're going to overcrowd the
planet if we uh slow down aging, but we
need those need the current existing
people to stay healthy and productive
because they're running out of people.
Like, are we seeing are we seeing good
work coming out of uh out of China as an
area? Do you know that? Are there
scientists? I'm just I'm curious what's
going on there. They are more than a
decade behind the US right now, but
we're seeding to them right now. We're,
you know, we're cutting our science by
more than half and oh my god, all that
stuff. So, I think China is laughing all
the way to uh to the IP patent office
and uh we we really risk our lead in
this area and you know while AI is neck
and neck, we have a big lead in
longevity but we could lose that. Yeah,
for sure. All right, let's jump into
questions from your fans. All right, so
the first one was, "What role is AI
playing in your search to reverse
aging?" We we heard about that already.
A very big big role. A big role. When
did it start becoming a big role in your
in your lab? Uh we started using it
about 3 years ago. Um but now we we we
don't go a day without it. Exactly. Um
and and think about this that what what
we do now in 2 months would have taken
thousands of years to do. Yeah. It's you
can say it but just let that sink in.
The prediction the predictions that I
made 5 years ago are out the window
because of AI. Mhm. Now I'm much more
optimist. So the new book's going to
update those predictions. Exactly. Yes.
Okay. Fantastic. at Safia 3000 says, "Is
there a role for epigenetic
reprogramming to end ovarian aging and
restore ovarian function?" Maria will
answer that uh in my lab, PhD student.
So, yes, we we do believe that we can
reverse ovarian aging. We already were
the first group uh with our Australian
offshoot to show that you can reverse
infertility in old mice. Uh that was a
shocker because people said, "Oh,
mammals run out of eggs." Right. Yeah,
but we took 16-month old mice which had
become infertile 6 months earlier and
reversed them and made them produce pups
again. Wow. I know it's possible even
with NN it worked. Wow. So, we're going
to try the the even better technology,
the stronger technology, the epigenetic
reprogramming. Incredible. And you know,
most men are very ignorant about uh
ovarian aging. And and yeah, I mean,
just to pass along some facts for folks,
uh something like only five or six
species on the planet go through
menopause. Um you know, it's three
species of whales, Norwall, and humans
go, which is crazy. You'd imagine
everybody does, but no, that's not the
case. And if you're a guy, the age at
which your sister went through mon
menopause actually correlates with how
long you'll live, right? It it's really
a good good indicator of longevity.
Fascinating. All right. Uh at Glenn
Origin asks, "How close are we to making
partial cellular reprogramming safe and
scalable for human use? What's your
current stance on NAD+ boosters? Are
NMN, NR, and IVNAD Plus still viable? or
is there a next evolutionary uh
evolution emerging? Is gene therapy
still your most promising delivery
method for yamanakas? We've sort of
covered many of those. I don't know if
you want to add anything on there. That
that was a very long question. Yeah. Um
but testing your memory. Yeah, it really
is. I think we're very close. We'll go
into our first humans hopefully uh by
this time next year. We might know if it
works. From then on, it's probably a
year or two before we do whole body
rejuvenation.
that works. Imagine. I mean, it's just
it feels like it's science fiction. It
feels like it's the future. It's like
we're living in the Star Trek universe
with, you know, AI at this level and
talking about whole body rejuvenation. I
mean, what an extraordinary time to be
alive. It is it it is uh the future the
future looks so bright. We we have to
make it happen. Yeah, we we absolutely
have to. So at uh Ethor Arnolds asks
when can we expect results on human
trials of OSK Yamanaka factors. I think
you've you've answered that we're going
to see human trials. This is the the
life biosciences work starting in
January. January. Yep. Okay. Atnik Singh
uh wants to know when is your next book
coming out? Uh we shared that. So, it's
2026 and it's called Lifespan Survival.
I'll tell you what it's about, please.
Yeah, I'd love that. So, so lifespan was
more of a textbook. It was why do we
age? Yeah. And how does this all work
and what will happen to the planet when
this happens? Book two is really
answering all the questions that I've
been getting since. And it's so think of
lifespan 2, the book, as the guide book.
How do we optimize our bodies? looking
at our evolution, the genes that we all
carry, how do we individualize our
lifestyles, supplements, medicines to
maximize our longevity and then what do
we do for the next 20 10 20 years going
forward and uh I look at it from the
individual perspective at the molecular
level all the way through to society.
Fantastic. Uh at Dana Brilliant writes,
"What's your exercise routine? How much
protein do you eat?" Uh okay, her name
is Brilliant. I like that. Yeah. So, the
the routine is whenever I can, I get to
the gym and and often I'm on planes, so
it's hard to work out on planes. But the
uh I think it's very important a few
times a week to get to the gym or at
least at home have something some
weights you can lift um and then walk or
run on a treadmill moving, moving,
moving and and keeping especially after
the age of 50, you got to keep lifting
weights otherwise you're going to lose
it. Smoking is the new I mean sitting is
the new smoking as I I like to say. And
for me, the tricks are I have a uh you
know, a stationary bike. I take my Zoom
meetings on my stationary bike. Uh it
works well. Yeah. So, if you've ever
ever been on a Zoom meeting with me, it
looks like I'm in space because I'm
standing, but I'm moving all the time.
Uh and uh so yeah, I I don't sit down
during the day. I try not to at least.
So, that's one trick. Um protein. I eat
a lot of protein, but it's mostly
plant-based. Sure. Do so you know for me
I I put on 10 pounds of muscle mass
about about two years ago 18 months ago
and my job is keep it on now and it was
creatine. Do you take creatine as a
supplement? No, but I'm considering it.
Yeah. I mean looks like all upside, no
downside for me. So I do five grams of
creatine and it was one uh you know one
gram of protein per pound of body
weight. Um and there's a lot of debate
on how much protein. our friend down the
street here uh is uh uh is at at UCLA is
not liking so much protein. Well, I'm I
I tend Yeah, there's Var uh and also
Dudley Lamming is my ex- studentent.
He's now a professor and uh he's done
some of the most work on looking at
amino acids and how they affect
longevity and there are some really good
amino acids and there are some that will
reduce your lifespan and there are what
called what's called branch chain amino
acids lucine isolucine veining that are
the bad ones and you get a lot of that
from meat so I try not to eat a lot of
meat plants have less of these amino
acids what's your favorite protein
source from plants oh g lentils lentils
I love love lentils yes okay uh aoko So
uh Nova 1 asks uh Dr. David Sinclair,
what single experiment would you
definitely
falsify your epigenetic noise? Okay.
What experiment would falsify your
epigenetic noise theory of aging? Is
there something that if you ran it would
disprove that theory? Oh yeah, it's easy
uh to to disprove a theory. It's it's
much harder to prove it. Uh lots of
things could disprove it. For example,
the ice mice. If we had accelerated the
epiggenome aging, so changing the
methylation pattern, the gene
expression, and those mice were normal
and didn't look old, then I would have
thrown out the theory. But they did look
old. And that was the reason that I
thought it's it's likely to be true
because the chances that it would fail
were 99%. But that 1% it worked. Wow.
All right. at good to think with asks,
"What AI advancement would be the most
useful for your research?" Oh, that's
great. I would love uh if AI could tell
me who the observer is, where the
observer is. Uh we've been working on
that, but would love it if they said,
"We just analyzed all the world's data
and it's got to be this this result." Um
that that would help. Um sure. That's my
dream is before I die to figure out how
does the cell rejuvenate and have the
have it have the AI publish uh the paper
for you as well. Well, that's almost
doable now. Um but I think that also
being able to do drug development even
better than we do now. So to be able to
say this one molecule is your candidate
for going into humans would be amazing.
Wow. We're not there yet. you know, it
says top hundred, but going down to one
and like you said, having a digital twin
and being able to simulate the
interaction with all the proteins in the
body and say, "Okay, that one's probably
going to be toxic, but this one will
work." Um, that would be we're probably
only a few years away from that. And
eventually, you'll just do it on your
phone. We'll talk about, oh, let's cure
whatever disease on your phone. By the
time you get home, it's told you how to
do that. That's Yeah, I love that. I
have a question that pops in mind here.
There's a crazy statistic about the non
reproducibility of research data. I
mean, is it like half of the research
out there, I'm not sure if it's that
high, but can't be reproduced. Well,
what's going on there? Yeah, it's that
number is an exaggeration. I we
sometimes struggle to reproduce people's
data, and it's because you're using a
different cell line, different water
supply, it's different handler, the mice
don't behave the same way. So, it's not
that the people are faking it. It's more
that science is complicated and variable
and depends on where and how you do it.
And some labs rejoice in disproving
things. I don't do that. I I always
assume I'm the one that it's not
working, the reason it's not working.
But there are labs that thrive on not
reproducing people's data. And it's
super easy to not reproduce someone's
result. Sure, I could easily do it. Just
change one thing and it's not going to
work. So, there's that category. But, of
course, there's a lot of research that
isn't done rigorously like this to
paper. It might have been due to just
inherent variability taking one time
point, but when you look over the
lifespan of longitudinal same humans,
you do see it. So there there sometimes
there's some bad science, but I think
that number is exaggerated. I'm very
happy to say that none of our papers
have ever been disproved or had to be
retracted or changed their conclusions.
I stand behind my scientific record and
we work really hard to make sure that
everything we do is very reproducible.
In fact, we don't publish something
unless our lab and another lab can
reproduce it. That's super high
standards. Uh, okay. Robertz ZX writes,
"What one area do you want to see more
innovative startups tackling? Is there
something that in longevity or I assume
so in the biotech longevity world is I I
would love uh more labs to be working on
finding new ways to reverse aging." Mhm.
Uh right now we have three genes that we
know work. That's our technology. and we
have some small molecules we're working
on, but then it it's, you know, it's all
white space for people to get into. Uh
we do have some competition, right?
We've got Altos and and the others. Um
but I think that this area is similar to
AI. There's just that there's so much
that can be done and it's not like one
company is going to win everything. If
you're talking about potentially being
able to treat andor cure most diseases,
uh you could have hundreds of companies
being very successful in this area. and
I would like to see more jump in. Uh,
one of our mutual friends, Dr. Zebonov,
uh, from Incilico Medicine has built an
amazing lab that is AI and robotic
driven. So, the AI proposes the
experiment, the robots run the
experiment overnight, get the data,
iterate on the theory, and so forth.
Does anything like that exist in in
Boston right now? I'm not aware of it,
but that sounds that's the future for
sure. Alex is on to it. Yeah, I think
that humans will just play a minor
supervisory role in the future of drug
development. Now, right now we humans
are more creative than AI, right? We can
imagine things that that AI cannot, but
that is only a few years from being
superseded by AI that can have an
imagination just like ours. I I by the
way actually I believe that we we're
going to see consciousness in these
machines and I just tweeted out uh
because I just finished listening to a
book about the uh evolution of
intelligence um um Max Bennett I think
is the author and it's a great book and
he talks about how we evolved our
intelligence and it starts with language
by the way which know now we're doing
LLM so we're early stages of human
evolution over the last million years
but there's not that many steps that
between once you've got language to
becoming sentient. It's almost a given.
Wow. I'm about to go on a two week
vacation to Alaska with my family and I
was looking for a book to read. I think
you just found it for me. You remember
the title of it? I think it is the
evolution of intelligence. Fantastic.
Oh, it might be a brief history of
intelligence. Every day I get the
strangest compliment. Someone will stop
me and say, "Peter, you have such nice
skin. Honestly, I never thought I'd hear
that from anyone. And honestly, I can't
take the full credit. All I do is use
something called OneSkin OS1 twice a day
every day. The company is built by four
brilliant PhD women who've identified a
peptide that effectively reverses the
age of your skin. I love it and again I
use this twice a day every day. You can
go to onkin.co and write peter at
checkout for a discount on the same
product I use. That's oneskin.co
and use the code peter at checkout. All
right, back to the episode. Jared uh
Michaels uh writes, "When will poor
people be able to extend their lifespan,
you know, so one of the things that we
get critique on all the time is the
expectation that it's going to be super
expensive and it is initially the the
gene therapy is not cheap." Um but as
I've said today, we're working on making
it as cheap as possible. I could see it
being a dollar or less a dose
eventually. Oh, and by the way, patents
run out. So even if the company recoups
its money, yeah, it'll eventually be
like aspirin. I mean, you know, Madna's
uh COVID vaccine
was between a dollar to $2 a dose. When
you when you're providing something to a
billion people, it gets really cheap.
Yeah. And actually, based on what my lab
is doing now, I see no reason why for a
few cents a day, everybody could afford
a longevity pill. Yeah. I mean, it's a a
beautiful vision. All right. Uh let's
see. Uh V or Vladimir Adelor asks, "What
is the difference between the current
longevity metrics and actually being
young?" Uh I can at age 22 go in get in
a fight, get drunk, do an overnight
while still operating many highskll work
at perfection. Whereas longevity folks
can't do any of that. We can I don't
know. I feel like I can do anything like
that. But listen, I I'm not I'm not
going to pull allnighters like I did in
my 20s. Yeah. Right. Well, our organs
are not optimized still. Their gene
expression, so the epigenome has
degraded. You and I have lost some of
that information. So, our liver cells
are not pristine anymore. They are
behaving a little bit more like a nerve
cell or a skin cell. They're they're
more like a malange of cells. So, we
need to reboot them so that they know
how to be perfectly liver cells again.
So that's why I think we you and I
cannot do an allnighter now and get away
with it. Yeah. But that doesn't mean we
can't. I mean, I now look at an old
person. I don't see them as an old
person. I just see someone who needs a
reboot. I love that. I love that. Hey,
you want a reboot? Come on over here.
Um, all right. Uh, Jay uh Kingsley says,
"What are the second and third order
effects once aging has been cured? Does
life have more meaning before it's um
because it's finite? So, this is get it
gets in the philosophical conversation
here and I I love your thoughts on this.
I definitely have opinions, please. Uh
we may share them. Um I'm not enjoying
this conversation because I'm worried
about dying. Yeah, I'm enjoying it
because the moment is fantastic. And I
don't think if the fact that I'm going
to die one day makes this any more
enjoyable. I believe every day is a joy.
It's a gift and you make the most of it.
And whether I'm going to live 80, 200,
400 years, I'm going to enjoy this
moment just as much. You know, I remind
people, listen, the average age for most
of human history was like 30.
Are you enjoying life now less because
we've increased it two and a half or
threefold? I don't think so. I'm having
a blast. I want to see as much of it as
I can.
uh you know the impact of AI on purpose
is going to be interesting you know I
think that that's something important to
do in this world of extraordinary
abundance uh and you know
cognitive superpowers can we continue to
keep ourselves engaged and excited about
the future
um there is another thing when I'm when
I have my longevity platinum trip one of
the first exercises I do with people is
I say okay
I want you to write down on a piece of
paper what you would do with 20 extra
healthy years. Right? Write it down. And
most people can most people can sort of
think about 20 extra healthy years. Now
I say, what would you do with 50 extra
healthy years? Mhm. And people's minds
start to break. It becomes much more
difficult for them to do that. What
would you do with 50 years? What would I
do? Yeah. Oh, I' I'd keep researching
and and get us into new places. I had
somebody ask me once, why don't I work
on climate change? And I figure if we
solve aging, I'll just work on something
else. And I love research. I love
knowing things for the first time in
human history. I'll keep doing science
as science for as long as I am funded
and can do it. Um I love life, too. It's
just it's so much better than the
alternative. But uh if you look at my
father, you know, I didn't expect my
father to live beyond 80. Nor did he by
the way. And he is loving life like you
wouldn't believe. He's out every night
with different people and a lot of them
are uh are good friends and women and
they're younger than him. Um it turns
out when you're 85 86 most people are
younger than you. There's that and if
you're a man you're you you're there's
not a lot of competition at that age
but yet you know look at him you know he
would not say I wish I died at 80 like
some people say. He he wants every day
and he wouldn't mind another 20 years.
Yeah. Um, I think what what we may have
to do as a soci society is do what
Sweden did, which is they recently
pegged their longevity to their
retirement age. And so as longevity goes
up, you work longer. Um, it makes sense.
You can't just all sit around drinking
cocktails. Yeah. And we'll have a re
we'll have a revolt when that happens.
But it makes sense. But it'll slowly
inch up. Let's say longevity goes up by
a year in the country. You work for next
year again. What's the alternative? Do
you want to just die young? But I think
again if you feel great, if you've got
the energy, if you got the cognitive
clarity, if you got the mobility, right,
you're going to want to do stuff. Yeah.
And maybe there's a world where, you
know, we've got AI and Androids where we
don't have to work for Yeah. We have
some version of UBI, but health is still
going to be is the most valuable asset
we have. Yeah. All right. So, you know,
second and third order effects. Uh you
know one other thing that people ask is
oh my god overpopulation of the planet
uh from people living longer and of
course I think everybody listening to
here to moonshots knows the numbers here
right we're uh the replacement age
replacement number of children per
family is 2.1
almost every country on the planet is
below that some dramatically right South
Korea is like.7
children per family Japan is not far
from that Italy is evaporating most of
most of Europe, US those economies are
screwed by the way unless they do
something serious. Well, longevity is
critical and uh uh robotics and AI are
going to be critical and somehow
incentivizing people to to build family
I think is critical. Yeah. Or extend the
fertility age of women because a lot of
women these days uh leave it till too
late. Yep. And I mean this it's not fair
to them. You know, I had kids at 50,
right? Um I'm 64 now. You're a young
man. You're 64. Yeah. You're looking
great. Thank you. Uh I feel great. And
my kids are 50 and I keep on telling
them, "Yes, uh when you're 50, I'll be
100 and I'll still kick your butt."
Yeah. Well, I think we men, we we tend
to take it for granted that we can be
fertile and fit for for for most of our
lifespan, but but women, it's it's not
fair. and and they sometimes these
careers take 40 years as a scientist.
You're not mature until you're 40. And
the and Hollywood paints all these
pictures of women in their 40s having
kids and but that's a struggle. That's a
struggle and it's through invitro
fertilization or egg donors and it just
is not communicated. So and after 30
it's a precipitous drop in fertility. So
if you're a woman in your 20s, look at
those numbers and realize that after 30
it's going to go down dramatically.
Yeah. And try to make life's plan until
we figure out a solution. Freeze eggs.
Is that Yes. Um fertilized eggs if you
can. Um and and follow these protocols
is every indication that we can delay
infertility by delaying aging. Yeah. All
right. Uh, Mad Scientist asks, "If aging
is fixed and we all live for 500 years,
what will happen next? Uh, what are all
of the pros and cons of life past 150
years of age?" I, you know, listen, I
revert to Star Trek. It's like there's a
lot of universe out there. I just want
to see it all. I also imagine, you know,
uploading, I think we'll get there. We
just mapped the conneto of a Drosophila.
Uh did you see that work? Yeah. Yeah.
It's amazing. And I I had on stage at my
abundance summit last year uh a
gentleman uh Michael Andre who is
working on uh mapping a mouse and he
wants to uh he believes the technology
now exists to map a human brain fully
and upload it. The problem is it's
destructive in process. Yeah. That
that's a slight downside. And you know,
I'm going to have my I'm going to have
my AI up on the cloud over the speakers
that will say, "Hey, Peter, you've
successfully uploaded. You can kill
yourselves now." It's like, "Yeah,
there's a good Black Mirror episode on
that." Oh, you know, listen, I'm going
to hit this for a second. I am pissed
off at Black Mirror. I'm pissed off at
Hollywood
because we humans need a positive vision
of the future to aim for. you know, we
need a story that is that is uh
compelling um and abundant uh and
hopeful and we don't have many of those.
I mean, Star Trek was the one that
really lit me on fire. We need more of
those. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. And
especially when it comes to longevity,
it's it's usually, oh, something's gone
horribly wrong. Yes. Yeah. Exactly. Um
at Sharon Bank says uh maybe ask about
longevity's economic impact uh keep it
insightful. So I want to drill down more
into the Harvard London School of
Business Oxford paper. Um because I want
to understand how we get to uh tens of
trillions of dollars from one year of
additional healthy life because that's
what it's saying. Yeah. How I mean the
the global economy is $110 trillion.
Was this for the US or was this for the
globe? Do you remember? It was just US
for one year of extra. It's the value to
the economy. Um and the value is the key
word. Um the value is how much are we
people willing to pay? It's called the
the willingness to pay. Mhm. Uh WTP. And
the way economists use this number is
they they say what's it worth to you to
have an extra year of life. And the
reason that the number balloons out
astronomically is that there's a
positive feedback is that for every
extra year that somebody lives that it
turns out they want more of that and
they're willing to pay for more of that.
Yeah. And that's one of the main
reasons. And then of course you can take
away a lot of the health care issues.
The longer somebody lives the less
burden they are on the economy and uh
and that also factors in. Um but
healthcare is expensive. If you know,
somebody's got dementia or ALS like uh
you know, my my mother-in-law, this is
super expensive. That's just one person
costing tens of thousands a day to be
looked after. If that if she was still
healthy at 76, you know, she'd be still
earning, she'd be looking after, she'd
be spending. Yeah. Yeah. So, this is
what Gemini says. Research published in
Nature Aging in 2021. You were an author
on this paper, right? Yeah.
uh by a team including Harvard and
Oxford economists showed that a slowdown
in aging that increased life expectancy
by one year is worth an estimated $ 38
trillion to the global economy.
So um again I I find those numbers
crazy. I I I wish I'd been able to uh to
feed that information to Elon at the
beginning of his It's like like spend
the government money solving aging and
then have to worry about any this other
stuff. Yeah, that would have been much
better. At Cassie Nova says, "What are
the most effective over-the-counter
modalities available today for under
$1,000?"
So, we talked about some of those
supplements. I don't think any of them
are expensive. exercise, you know, is
pro I would think exercise is like the
most important modality. How do you feel
about that? I think uh yes, what you eat
and exercise, those are the two big
ones. Relatively easy. Um it's a little
bit more technical to get your
supplements right because you got it's
tailored to you. Um for cardiovascular
disease, there's something that I've
been taking for a couple of years now.
Uh and that actually has been shown in
studies to reverse cardiovascular
disease. Removes plaque. What is it?
It's called netokinise. Oh yeah, I take
nettokinness as well. Great. Yeah. So
maybe I take I take it for you know
postcoid on airplane flights just
reducing clotting potentially. Oh so
that's the short term but the long-term
benefit was there was a study with I
think,086
people. Uhhuh. Uh a Chinese study but
was very well powered and they showed
that up to 95% of plaque got removed in
one year. Wow. just by taking uh but you
need at least uh 12 units a day. Um
they're called fi fu units but not fu
but
uh fibrolytic units. So I've been doing
that and it's been so far great. I
measure my kurateed with ultrasound and
there's no no plaque buildup there at
all. Um so it's hard to reduce that but
I do take it as prevention. Let me see
where I am on natto. Nakinase is an
enzyme that digests fibbrin which is
part of I'm on 100 milligrams of your uh
I'm on 100 milligrams of nakinise. I
don't know how many units that
translates to. Yeah, I would say if you
don't want to take a lot of pills at
least 6,000 units would be a good start
and then work up from there. But of
course do this with the knowledge of
your physician. You don't want to I I
have an army of doctors I hire. I I have
30 of them that working for me at the
lifestyle. That's true. But not everyone
can do that. But still just in general
just as a warning. Yeah. Um, if you do
change your lifestyle and supplements,
just make sure your doctor knows. Yeah,
for sure. You know, one of the things I
really so desperately want is and and
there was a question about what people
should build. I want an AI model that
will take in my genetics, take in my
recent blood work,
take in my goals, like I want higher
cognitive clarity, I want more muscle, I
want more longevity. Whatever your goals
are, you prioritize them. And then how
many pills a day you willing to take?
Yeah. And it should spit out a
prioritized list because right now you
go to one doctor, you'll get one set.
You, you know, listen to you or me,
you'll get another set. You listen to
another person, another set. There is an
optimal. There truly is. And so it's it
wouldn't be that hard actually to No, it
wouldn't be. The data is out there.
We're working on that. But you go to
doctors and and most doctors would say,
"What's nattokinise?" They can't keep up
with the literature. It's just too much.
But AI can. AI can. Let's talk about
something that you and I might differ
on. I'm curious. Sleep. Um, I suck at
it. How do you do?
Uh, I got a 92 last night, which I was
very happy about on my Aura ring. I got
I won't tell you what I got. I will tell
you cuz I got to look right now. Last
night was awful. I mean, I'm usually
very proud of my of my sleep. Um, uh,
last night I got a 64. It's the lowest
I've gotten in like a year. And I think
it was uh I've been so going 247
this week getting ready for being gone
for two weeks and whatever it was, but I
made up for it today. Definitely. Good.
Well, I try my best. I'm from traveling.
You said to me once you think you can
get away with less sleep. I have figured
out how to do that. Okay. Pray tell.
It's about the amount of deep sleep that
you get. And so I've got to which is the
most important thing, right? supplement
that I take that puts me straight into
deep sleep. Is it a Dora drug? Is it uh
Serena makes it? Serena sells it
actually. So, but I I'm h you know,
you're not promoting her, but I can.
What What is it? It's called Sweet
Dreams, and uh it it's changed a lot of
lives. It's uh it's a mixture of very
low dose melatonin, 5HDP, delionine.
It's magical. So, yeah. And where would
I find it? What website? Even if she
wasn't, my partner, I would say that's
what I take cuz I used to have uh
insomnia really badly. It's I'm off
ambient now. Oh, yeah. Ambient's just
terrible. You just get it on her
website, serenal loves.com. Okay,
fantastic. Oh, thanks, Peter. Again, I'm
not here to promote it. No, I I I get
it. But, you know, uh we share what we
know that works for us and that's all we
can do. Yeah. Oh, another disclaimer.
Yeah. Um just want to make sure everyone
knows that my thoughts, my opinions, and
even what I just said have nothing to do
with Harvard Medical School, right?
They're just my employer and they're not
medical advice. No. Okay. Uh Sam
uh Ren uh Rankenma asks, "What are the
top 10 practical longevity tips? Top uh
top three for each organ
and which five longevity gadgets uh do
you recommend?" So let's let's go with
the la let's go with the last part. We
can go with gadgets. Gadgets. Yeah. What
are you using for gadgets? In our home,
we have a red light bed. It's a big one.
You have the Thor the lie down one. I
have panels right now that I use a panel
front. It is. Uh but yeah, it's it's a
big thing with a lid that it looks like
a a tanning bed, but it's not. Yeah, I
love that. So, I I do red light many
mornings as I possibly can. Yeah. The
other thing I've been doing is I have a
red light portable and I put it uh
outside the shower shining in. And so,
as I'm in the shower, I'm getting red
light therapy, too. And it's also a
steam shower, which is nice. Um so,
that's one red light. Um I use that on
my head as well. Yeah, I have a c a red
eye cap for hair growth. Yeah,
stimulation. It's doing okay. It's
working.
Uh I still can't believe you're 65. Is
that 64? Sorry, I didn't mean to age me.
No, that's okay. That's f you know, I've
gotten to a point where I'm stating my
age with pride versus hiding it because
I I am I am 64 and that's it. And I'm
just like, you know, for me that is a
call to action to remain at highest
health status for as long as possible
cuz we have incredible tech coming our
way and I want to intercept that
longevity escape velocity. Well, well,
you're also a ro a role model and uh you
know I feel like I feel like I'm 28 or
29. That's my internal age. That's my
internal number for myself. Yeah. I
would say physically you look like you'd
be in 30s, 40s. Um, and and you move
just like you were in your 30s, 40s, I
bet. Yeah. Um, and by the way, my father
is stronger, fitter, and more flexible
than I am with better balance. And he's
at 86. So, it's very doable. I I you
know, on my birthday a few weeks ago,
and I pumped out 100 push-ups in a row,
which was, you know, when I was in my
20s, the most I could do was 40 and I
got to 50. And I've increased it from
there. And I'm not saying that to brag.
I'm just saying I use that as a measure
for how I'm doing. In fact, in my
longevity guide book, I put um my
measurements that I've been measuring
over the last few years in terms of
squats and push-ups and, you know, all
of the in plank pose and such. And it's
it's important for you to measure
yourself. Of course, you get a lot of
data from your your DEXA scans and your
MRIs and so forth. Um the data the data
does matter. Uh obviously, you have an
aura ring on, too. Um I have a ring and
I don't say what type it is. Okay, fair
enough. Um, do you use I don't have my
uh my CGM on. Do you use a CGM? I do.
Yeah. Yeah. Not every week, but um you
know when I when I feel like it's
probably uh five times a year or
something and different brands are
better than others, but um you want to
try what and research what works. But
monitoring your glucose, a lot of
doctors, maybe not a lot of doctors, but
I've seen some doctors say it's it's
irresponsible for people to have access
to that data. Should be for doctors.
Yeah. You'll you look online. And there
are some doctors who are dead against
CGMs unless you've got diabetes. And
even then, which I'm dead against. First
of all, who are you to say that I can't
know about my own body, right? And that
I'm not educated enough to understand
this. I would say a lot of the people
out there are just as educated about
glucose than as than their own doctors.
So, I'm I'm definitely in the camp of we
have a right to know our own genetics,
our own epigenetics, our own glucose
levels. And information is power. As
long as you're telling your doctor what
you're doing and talking to them about
it, you got do doctor supervision, it's
fine. When I talk to my doctors, they
say, "Can we see the data? We'd love to
see it." You know? Yeah. I, you know,
one thing that is I'm curious about your
thought here. I hate the notion that the
government um prohibits me from
participating actively in experimental
treatments.
If I'm at the end of life and uh you
know my option is death and some neurom
months, why do I have to leave the
country to go and try an experimental
treatment? Why if I'm of sound mind or
if my family agrees
um you know right right to what's it
called? right to right to test, right to
use um right to try. Right to try is
getting going, but uh I and it's done
under doctor's supervision. You you
don't just I mean you're a doctor, but
most people don't just say I want to try
this. Give it to me. It's it's done
under doctor's supervision. So your your
physician makes the decision with you.
Yeah. So just the idea that oh it might
the uneducated decision is not true.
Same with youth in Asia. You know there
you have to go overseas now if you want
to do that. And if you're in agony every
day, I mean, who are you who are we to
say that you shouldn't do what you want
with your life? All right. Uh,
Entropy asks a question I'm curious
about. How long do you want to live? So,
uh, there's interesting when I'm I'm on
stage, I'll ask people in the room here,
how long do you think you're going to
live? You have a number in your brain.
And where did you get that number from?
And why do you believe it? And I find it
fascinating that this this mindset that
people have this number
um can make has implications, right?
Your your mind is a very powerful force
on how long you'll live. So you're
asking me those questions? I'm I'm
asking you how long do you want to live
and why? And why is the important part,
right? If you're willing. Yeah. No, it's
it's fine. I I think it's a better
question to ask when do you want to die?
And as long as I'm healthy and I have
friends, I find no there will never be a
day when I want to die. And I think
that's true for just about everybody.
You know, if you're sick, frail, lonely,
depressed, that's when those thoughts
come in, but I don't know anybody, and
I've talked to thousands and thousands
of people in big crowds like you. If
you're healthy and have friends and
family, do you want to die tomorrow? No
one ever says, "Yeah, take me out."
Yeah, but when do I want to die? Um,
never. I don't like the idea of being
dead. Um, I think it's pretty boring.
Uh, but you know, it doesn't mean I I
believe I'm going to live forever, but I
also don't think that if I'm I'm staying
healthy and active and having fun, why
would I want to die? Why would anybody
want to die? Yeah.
Uh, David, I I truly uh love what you
do. I consider you a dear friend and I'm
grateful for you in my life. Uh let me
recap a couple of things for listeners
at home. Uh David's new book, uh
Lifespan Survival is coming out in 2026.
Uh a number of you asked when is his
podcast coming back? Well, David's
podcast is coming back. It's coming back
this fall. What's it called? The
Lifespan with David Sinclair. Awesome.
And uh I asked earlier your producer and
if you want to get on his list to get
access to it when it comes out, go to
david ainclair.com.
What's the A stand for by the way?
Andrew. Andrew. That's my dad. Yeah. All
right. Go to David A. Sinclair. U my
mine is Peter HD Amandis and Harry is my
dad's name, too. Yeah. I sort of honor
him with that. So Davidclair.com and
you'll see a uh a subscribe button
there. Please do. I will. Um, couple of
other things. Please join me in
supporting David's research and his
extraordinary team at his lab. Uh, in
the show notes, you'll see a link to uh,
be able to donate at a 50k to,000k
a,000k 50k to $1,000 level. Uh, through
Harvard Medical School. It's
taxdeductible. Uh we'll put up once
again here the QR code uh for the
Coinbase wallet where those of you can
donate uh either uh stablecoin uh
ethereum uh or or bitcoin. I hope you'll
join me and I would love to get like a
massive surprise from somebody who comes
in and says, you know, listen, we're
going to match your $2 million budget.
Here's some Bitcoin. Yeah. So my my lab
runs on 3 million a year. Three million
a year. Okay. So $3 million budget. If
someone does that, then I'll give them
my my entire protocol. Give them
everything. I mean, what's it worth uh
in success? Uh this is a micro
investment for the impact on humanity.
Yeah. And there'll be spinouts, too.
Yeah. And and oh, by the way, you you
were there when at Steve Aoki's uh Oh,
yeah. thing. So, we we were at at an
auction and uh we were the auctions. We
were I forget what what you offered, but
but mine it was a tour of my lab and
that went for 100k. Yeah. Yeah. So all
the friends are welcome to have that as
a bonus to come by my lab and see what
we're up to. And and the third the third
approach is uh joining uh joining David
who and myself as 50k level donors for
friends of sinclair lab. Uh just send an
email to uh fossl
diamandis.com
and then we'll connect you back to a
site where you can tell us about
yourself. And if you're serious about
joining Francisco Lab, you'll see David
and I uh once a quarter and we'll talk
about what's the latest and greatest,
what's going on your lab, what the
investment opportunities are, what the
breakthroughs are. We'll see it. It'll
be super secret, direct access. Yeah.
And we'll do we'll do at least one
dinner. Yeah. Maybe more. Yeah. So So
David, where do we find you on Twitter?
Uh that is David A. Sinclair. Uh, and
then on Instagram it's David Sinclair
PhD. Okay, fantastic. Buddy, listen,
this was fun. I enjoyed this. I really,
really did. It was really great to catch
up again. I'm going to see you in uh uh
in Boston at the end of September. And
by the way, if you want more information
to join me for my 5day, five-star
longevity platinum trip, uh it's capped
at 60 people. Uh we spend 5 days
together with the most extraordinary
scientists in the world. uh like David,
like George Church, like Dean Cayman, uh
go deep for those days. You can go to uh
abundance 360.com/
longevity and learn more information
about it. Uh excited to spend the
weekend with you. And then in March at
the Abundance Summit, uh again, it's
been a few years since you were there
and so much so much progress in this age
of AI. It's awesome. It is. Yeah. And
every year it just gets better and
better. Um, and I also want to speak on
behalf of every everyone listening. I
think we all feel the same way about
you. You're a unique individual on the
planet and thank God you exist because
yeah, you make things happen that
otherwise would never be in history and
you've already shown that you've done
that. So maybe with longevity that'll be
your legacy, too. Yeah, I hope so. I
look forward to partnering with you on
that. Thank you, my friend. All right,
buddy. Be well. You, too. If you could
have had a 10-year head start on the dot
boom back in the 2000s, would you have
taken it? Every week I track the major
tech meta trends. These are massive
game-changing shifts that will play out
over the decade ahead. From humanoid
robotics to AGI, quantum computing,
energy breakthroughs, and longevity. I
cut through the noise and deliver only
what matters to our lives and our
careers. I send out a Metatron
newsletter twice a week as a quick
two-minute readover email. It's entirely
free. These insights are read by
founders, CEOs, and investors behind
some of the world's most disruptive
companies. Why? Because acting early is
everything. This is for you if you want
to see the future before it arrives and
profit from it. Sign up at
dmmness.com/tatrends
and be ahead of the next tech bubble.
That's dmmness.com/tatrens.
[Music]
